T H E
L O S T
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
W O R L D S
“You don’t understand—this place isn’t what we thought it was.
I was wrong. We were so wrong.”
— E L I Z A B E T H S H AW
141G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
The Lost Worlds is a sandbox campaign for frontier
colonists, set in the distant reaches of the Far Spin-
ward Colonies. The player characters—blue collar,
salt of the earth, hard-working types—are part of an
ambitious expedition in search of these colonies, lost
nearly a century ago. Their goal: to find them, make
the people safe, re-colonize the sector, and bring it
back into the embrace of human society.
But this campaign isn’t just a colony mission, it’s
also about exploring alien worlds. The PCs will dis-
cover the breathless wonders of the galaxy, and trade
them in for enough fat Company dollars to retire on.
T H E
The campaign consists of six expeditions to differ-
ent Far Spinward Colonies, which can be played in any
order, and a seventh campaign finale. There are also
rules to generate encounters at any of the other colo-
nies too. As your PCs travel, they will learn clues about
the terrible threats playing out across this space,
leading them to the single-minded bio-mechanical
organisms known as the Perfected, and their intent to
remake humankind in their dreadful image. They will
reach the final climactic expedition where they must
face this terror and decide the destiny of all.
F A R S P I N W A R D
C O L O N I E S
SETTLE DOWN FOR A HISTORY LESSON
By the 2050s the unfettered growth of the mega-cor-
porations meant that private equity led the way to
the stars. The British Weyland Corporation estab-
lished settlements in what became known as the Far
Spinward Colonies, then brought them under the aus-
pices of the newly formed Three World Empire. But
while Weyland and the 3WE were the prime movers
behind this expansion, the colonists themselves
came from all walks of life, including the Chinese
Asian Nations Cooperative (CANC), a supernation
subsequently absorbed by the UPP. All told, eighteen
colonies were established, inhabited by millions of
hopeful pioneers.
Then, 75 years ago—disaster. The space between
the Outer Rim and the Far Spinward Colonies was
scoured by massive solar ejections, gamma bursts
and waves of radiation. The time known as “the Isola-
tion” had come. Travel was made impossible, and all
communication with the new colonies was lost. Cut off
from the Middle Heavens, the Far Spinward Colonies
were left to fend for themselves and forgotten.
Until now. Looking for a common cause to unite
the squabbling superpowers, the United Nations pro-
posed a multi-national expedition, the Great Mother
Mission, to unite humanity behind a common goal and
reclaim the lost colonies.
FA S T F O R WA R D T O 2 1 8 5
Those 75 years have been tough for the citizens of the Far
Spinward Colonies. The radiation storms wreaked havoc,
and the loss of their supply lines from home was a terrible
blow. Some colonies managed to hold on, re-focusing their
efforts on just staying alive. Others fell into barbarism and
infighting. Some failed completely, leaving no survivors.
On top of all that, the colonists disturbed something
that had long been asleep. The Fulfremmen, aka the
14 2
Perfected, had been hibernating, waiting to be found by
living, breathing creatures so they could continue their
one mission in life: to infect—to make perfect—everything
they find. Three colonies quickly fell to them, before the
settlers could mount a resistance. Some fell back to hide
in their colonies or hold the line there. Others took more
direct action, to try and keep the Perfected at bay.9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
THE FULFREMMEN
The Fulfremmen are relentless in pursuit of two objec-
tives—their need to spread their “perfection” to every
living and mechanical entity they can, and their desire
to cultivate an Empress hive of XX121 Xenomorphs, a
“hive of hives,” as a sacred monument to the majesty
of these creatures.
The Perfected were created by an advanced
humanoid species known as the Engineers—Homo
Gentior—who, in their attempts to recreate an ancient
alien lifeform they called the Destroying Angel, also
created humankind, the Arcturians and the Proto-
morph. Despite their technological mastery the
Engineers came into conflict with their creations—the
Perfected persisted, the Engineers did not.
S I T U AT I O N : Asleep for millennia, the Perfected
were accidentally awoken after the Far Spinward Col-
onies were isolated from the Middle Heavens. Capelli,
Kareti and July Colonies were overrun and transformed
into Proto-Hives (page 129). Sanchez Colony was
destroyed before they could transform it. But the Per-
fected’s ability to spread has been hampered by a lack
of both navigational data for the Middle Heavens and
spaceships with FTL drives that can cover the distance.
One year ago, a congregation of the Children of
the Two Divines traveled to the Far Spinward Colonies
and found them. The Perfected gave some the gift of
perfection, but immediately saw the value in keeping
others un-perfected, to use as moles within the col-
onies, to infiltrate them and search for a ship to help
them fulfill their destiny.
The Children of the Two Divines also brought a gift:
an offering of XX121 eggs. The Perfected have been
cultivating xenomorph hives ever since and nurturing
an Empress to rule over them all. The Perfected know
of the Engineer relic they call the “Lychgate” and
see this as the perfect place to establish this “hive
of hives.”
P L AY I N G T H E P E R F E C T E D : The Perfected are
above all motivated to spread their infection. They are
relentlessly seeking navigation data for the Middle
Heavens, and ships that can cover the 30 parsecs to
their destination (see the expeditions Against a Sea of
Troubles and Let Sleeping Gods Lie, and the campaign
event Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing on page 169). As the
campaign develops, they become aware of the Great
Mother Mission, and will use the lure of the Engineer
Lychgate as a honeypot, to draw the colony ship
UNCSS Ìyánlá to them, so they can capture it as a prize
beyond their wildest dreams (see the expedition “In
the Shadow of Perfection”).
THE CHILDREN OF THE TWO DIVINES
The Children of the Two Divines are all servants to the
Perfected, and they work to further the Perfected’s
ambitions at all times.
S I T U AT I O N : Under the leadership of a rogue
android, Mother Ma’Kayla, this extremist offshoot of
the Church of the Immaculate Incubation (page 164 in
the core rulebook) is nothing more than a starfaring
death cult. In 2185 they gathered Engineer star chart
data, stole a fleet of modified Heliades-class ships,
and headed for what their translations called “Perfect
Space.” Expecting to find a paradise, they instead
found the Far Spinward Colonies. Now, their leaders
have found perfection as bio-mechanoids, and their
fanatical followers raid colonies to spread the word.
Six of their Heliades-class vessels are still opera-
tional, but they suffer from a lack of spare parts and
poor maintenance. None has an FTL drive that is
capable of anything more than a short haul among
the Far Spinward Colonies, and their FTL rating is
reduced to 20.
P L AY I N G T H E C H I L D R E N : The Children of the
Two Divines are fully committed to the objectives
of the Perfected, while individual members work to
prove their worth and be elevated to the ranks of the
perfected. In the campaign finale (In the Shadow of
Perfection) they will fight to capture the UNCSS Ìyánlá.
T H E S C H I S M I N T H E D E AT H C U LT : Not all the
Children of the Two Divines have proven devoted to
the cause of perfection. Six months ago, a group led
by Chikondi Okafor realized the error of their ways
and the danger they were in. Taking one of the Heli-
ades ships they made a run for it, reaching KOI-784
and Dylan Colony on their failing fumes of fuel, before
crashing in the jungle. Rescued by the colonists, they
were soon recognized for what they were, or had been
(see the expedition To Go My Own Dark Way).
143G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
M OTH ER MA’KAYLA
HYPERDYNE SERIES 120A/3 SYNTHETIC & STAGE
II BIOMECHANOID ABOMINATION
Single-minded and guarded, but curious, Mother
Ma’Kayla led the Children to Perfected Space, where
she was infected with a variant strain of 26 Draconis
and has now developed into a Stage II Abomination
(page 123)—unlike most strains of the black patho-
gen, this variant affects synthetics as well as humans.
She is a willing agent of the Fulfremmen and is on her
way to enlightened perfection—her skull has subtly
extended, and her arms and legs have increased in
bulk and length. However, she still retains mental
control and her love of ancient Earth poetry.
STRENGTH 7, AGILITY 7, WITS 6, EMPATHY 1
SPEED: 2
HEALTH: 7
SKILLS: Mobility 2, Ranged Combat 3, Observation 2
A NOTE FROM MU/TH/UR: As a Mutated Abomination (page 123), Ma’ Kayla
cannot use EMPATHY-based skills, firearms, or other technological
items, and is immune to MANIPULATION. She suffers damage as an
android. ■
GORHAM’S MARAUDERS
14 4
Gorham’s Marauders prowl the Far Spinward Colonies,
seemingly little more than pirates preying on the weak.
However, they have only one purpose—to prevent the
Perfected from leaving this sector of space. But first
things first. To do that they must survive.the core rulebook), blockading Perfected Proto-Hive
planets and destroying any Perfected vessels they find.
They have also been raiding colonies, to systematically
purge navigation charts, denying the Perfected the
knowledge to track humanity back to Earth.
T H E S I T U AT I O N : Gorham’s Marauders are colo-
nists who took it upon themselves to keep the Per-
fected from spreading across space. On his deathbed,
the original pioneer J.V. Gorham inspired his people to
destroy Sanchez Outpost before the Perfected could
transform it, leaving it a nuclear wasteland. Since
then, they have operated out of the ruined Seegson
platform orbiting Sanchez Colony, Finland Station
(the same design as Novgorod Station, page 358 ofP L AY I N G T H E M A R A U D E R S : The PCs will
encounter Gorham’s Marauders during the expedition
Let Sleeping Gods Lie and may come across them in
space (see the campaign event Gorham’s Marauders).
But if the PCs can build a relationship with them, they
can be called upon to help defend the UNCSS Ìyánlá
and finally defeat the Perfected (see the expedition In
the Shadow of Perfection).9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
CAPTAIN J.V. GO R HAM III
Jovial, light-hearted but committed to her task, she is
the great granddaughter of the legendary J.V. Gorham.
At 22 years old, the pirate leader has the legacy of her
family to live up to. Her grandfather and father were
responsible for taking the fight to the Perfected.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 5
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Mobility 2, Piloting 3,
Ranged Combat 2, Command 3
TALENT: Tough
GEAR: Gorham .44 Magnum revolver, pocketknife,
tools, 2 × Electroshock grenades.
T H E C O O P E R AT I V E
WAR LO RD ZH A
ˉ N GJIÉ
The Cooperative, under Colonel-turned-Warlord
Zhāngjié, has ambitions to dominate this region
of space, and will always try to turn any situation
to their advantage.
T H E S I T U AT I O N : The Cooperative is the
last bastion of the now defunct Chinese Asian
Nations Collective (CANC). They were forced to
abandon the failing Curzic Outpost after the Iso-
lation, finding refuge on May Outpost, a former
Three World Empire royal marine base. However,
after years of squabbling, the CANC finally used
force to subjugate the remaining marines and
take over. The Cooperative has thrived—in a
fashion—under Warlord Zhāngjié’s iron-fisted
leadership. Enhancing their own society through
press-ganging people from other colonies, they
restored the industry on May Outpost, and have
protected their people from invading forces.
A I R P O W E R : The Cooperative has two oper-
ational Bison CM-88B Freighters with four drop
shuttles each. They use these to raid other colo-
nies and take what they need from these worlds
(stats as per the Bison G on page 181 of the core
rulebook but equipped with a Short Lance ASAT
missile launcher and two Tactical Nukes each).
Long ago they had their long-range nav data
wiped, and the Cooperative tend to steer well
clear of Gorham’s Marauders, given half a chance.
Power-hungry, violent but logical. While Zhāngjié’s
philosophy is “might is right” he tries to rule benev-
olently. However, if his authority is challenged, he
will respond with furious anger. Zhāngjié believes
the Engineer pyramid on May Outpost holds a secret
that will secure his future as a conquering hero, if he
can find a way to explore it safely (see the expedi-
tion The Devil Lives In Still Waters).
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 5, WITS 3, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Mobility 2, Ranged
Combat 2, Command 4, Manipulation 2
TALENT: Field Commander
GEAR: Kevlar vest, QSZ-203 semi-automatic
pistol, concealed derringer (bonus +1, base
Damage 2, Short range, 2 shots).
145G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
P L AY I N G T H E C O O P E R AT I V E : The PCs will
meet the Cooperative during the expedition The Devil
Lives In Still Waters, and may meet them during the
campaign event Cooperative Raids. They can become
allies or enemies, depending on the PCs’ actions.
Zhāngjié and the Cooperative are authoritarian ratio-
nal opportunists, always seeking to exploit the PCs
and the political divisions within the Great Mother
Mission for their own interests. ■
T H E G R E A T
M O T H E R M I S S I O N
“We didn’t leave Earth to be safe.”
—T E N N E S S E E “ T E E ” FA R I S ,
USCSS COVENANT
TIME FOR ANOTHER
HISTORY LESSON
In 2180, the United Nations proposed that a
multi-national, multi-corporation expedition
should travel to learn the fate of the Far Spin-
ward Colonies and reconnect them to the Middle
Heavens. Recession, and the recollection of
the abundance in the old colonies, made this
a mouth-watering prospect to the UA, 3WE,
and UPP alike—the Great Mother Mission was
established by the United Nations Interstellar
Settlement Corps (UNISC), under the command
of a UN bureaucrat, Governor Kholwa Abantu.
Naturally the Interstellar Commerce Commission
(ICC) were to be well-represented, to ensure fair
play and all safety protocols were stringently
followed.
A colossal Deucalion-class colony ship—the
UNCSS Ìyánlá—was launched in 2182, with its
four Magellan-class support ships: the UNCSS
Umsindisi, UNCSS Solovetsky Island, UNCSS
Chimata-no-kami, and UNCSS Typhoon. With the
addition of three Throop Rescue and Recovery
CM90V Corvus-class salvage vessels, the flotilla
was ready to sail.
14 6
U N C S S Ì YÁ N L Á
The UNCSS Ìyánlá is a Lockmart and Welsun Type
3300B Deucalion-class X modular colony carrier
(page 77), coming in at 2,550m in length,
with a beam of 450m and draft of 300m. This
state-of-the-art long-range spacecraft carries
four externally mounted Atmospheric Processor
Plant modules, four ring-mounted Magellan-­
class J Space Exploration Vehicles, as well as
numerous drop-shuttles, support craft, and
ground vehicles. Three “spines” run the length
of the vessel, with transit systems for crew and
equipment.
UNCSS ÌYÁNLÁ
MANUFACTURER: LOCKMART AND WELSUN
CREW: 35
LENGTH: 2,550 m
FTL RATING: 24ARMAMENTS: Ìyánlá is a colony vessel
SIGNATURE: +5and as such has no offensive arma-
ments. Those it possesses are either
defensive or configured to support
surface terraforming operations.
She has two CIWS Laser Arrays and
ten Sensor Decoys along her length,
for point defense against incoming
threats, and three Tactical Nuke hard-
points, for environmental terraforming
purposes only (page 177 of the core
rulebook).
THRUSTERS: −3
HULL: 20
ARMOR
RATING: 109 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
U N CSS ÌYÁN LÁ
COMMAND MODULE
Houses all flight controls, including the bridge and communications, all com-
mand and mission administration functions and briefing rooms. The senior
officers and flight crew live here.
TRANSIT MODULE
Contains air locks, hangar bays, ready rooms, and tactical ops centers.
Revived colonists are housed here before transit off-ship. There are six
docking arms, and the mission’s four SEVs dock to this module.
CRYOSLEEP MODULES A-D
Each module contains 2,500 colonists in cryosleep, with rehabilitation and
re-orientation facilities.
ENGINEERING AND
ATMOSPHERE PROCESSORS
The engineering section manages the maintenance of the
ship and its systems and includes a manufactory module for
building vehicles and equipment. It also houses the maga-
zine for Ìyánlá’s supply of terraforming tactical nukes, and
hangars for supply and repair vessels. All colony equipment
is shipped in bulk from here. This module also contains
extensive quarantine facilities. There are four externally
mounted Atmosphere Processor units attached to this
module—fully automated, they can be deployed to any
area of clear ground (1000m square) and will automatically
begin set-up and operations.
CRYOPRESERVATION AND STORE MODULES 1–4
Contains all the stores and equipment to support colonization operations,
including all cryopreserved human embryos and livestock.
100×100
METERS
DRIVE MODULE
Contains engines, reactors, fuel stores, the solar sail arrays, and recharge
facilities, as well as all the machinery and equipment required to make the
ship fly.
147G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE MEN AND WOMEN OF
THE GREAT MOTHER MISSION
The expedition’s total crew complement is 185:
TSenior Flight Officer, Captain Tadesse Kondwani
TÌyánlá’s flight crew: 35
TAdministration, corporate and ICC representa-
tives: 50
T
UNISC Peacekeepers, security drawn from the
3WE, UA and UPP: 40
TMagellan SEV crews: 10 per vessel, total 40
TThroop Corvus crews: 6 per vessel, total 18
TColonists in cryosleep: 10,000
THuman embryos in cryopreservation: 12,000
TEnormous stores, including various seeds and
livestock
W E Y L A N D -Y U TA N I
The senior W-Y corporate on board is Director
Kamal Vartouhi, but day to day running of Wey-
land-Yutani’s affairs, and the colony ship UNCSS
Ìyánlá, are overseen by a Platinum Edition reissue
of the Walter series synthetic, called Gaius.
Most of the Far Spinward Colonies were
established by the old Weyland Corporation and
had fallen under the authority of the 3WE before
the Isolation. Director Vartouhi naturally wants
to see these outposts returned to the fold and
ensure that Weyland Corporation’s centuries-old
investment finally pays off but is less concerned
by this than the 3WE seems to be.
Vartouhi is even more interested in the other
treasures that the Far Spinward Colonies may
offer. The corporation’s generosity—contrib-
uting the MU/TH/UR 9000 mainframe for the
UNCSS Ìyánlá as well as donating all four of the
Magellan-class SEVs, each equipped with a DA/
UT/UR 2200 FTL-linked back to Ìyánlá’s MU/TH/
UR—was not done from the goodness of their
heart. Through this network they can observe
and eavesdrop on the activities of the whole
expedition and ensure they don’t miss any excit-
ing finds (see the campaign event MU/TH/UR
Knows Best).
14 8
THE MISSION
M A N DAT E
The United Nations Interstellar Settlement Corps’
Mandate for the mission derives from the articles
of the pan-national Great Mother Mission Accord
of 2181, signed by all participating nations and
agencies.
The mission parameters are as follows:
1 Establish contact with the Far Spinward Col-
onies and provide immediate humanitarian
support as necessary.
2 Survey the sector and establish new UN-ad-
ministered colonies.
3 Recover existing colonial records for each
colony, stored in local Long Data Discs.
4 Negotiate terms under which surviving colo-
nies should return to UNISC oversight.
5 Assess the future technological, industrial,
and financial potential.
6 Adhere to all Interstellar Commerce Commis-
sion protocols and regulations and collabo-
rate in the spirit of the greater good.
“GREAT PARTNERSHIP”
On the eve of launch, the Secretary General of the
UN gave an address to the people of Earth:
“We are blessed, all of us here today, to see what
humankind can do when we put our heads together
in cooperation, rather than bang our heads together
in confrontation. The Great Mother Mission has
brought about ‘the Great Partnership,’ the partner-
ship of all the supernations and mega-corporations,
working together for the good of humankind.
Together you will find the lost colonies, restore their
people, banish the isolation and bring our lost broth-
ers and sisters back into the family of humanity. The
Great Mother Mission is a beacon of collaboration
and friendship—an example to all of a better future,
standing not arms versus arms, but arm in arm!
Godspeed Ìyánlá!”9 .
UNITED AMERICAS
More than anything, the UA joined the expedition
to keep an eye on their rivals, and now enemies,
the UPP. The news of the Frontier War back home
has not immediately opened hostilities within the
Great Mother Mission, thanks to the mediation of
Governor Abantu. But tensions are simmering and
the UA leadership, under Valentina Berezi, keep
trying to provoke the UPP into doing something
stupid (see the campaign event Baiting the Bear).
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
COLONY RECORDS
Each settlement in the Far Spinward Colonies
was set up with a recording mechanism called a
Long Data Disc—a black box for the colony. These
recorded petabytes of data about all aspects of
the colony, as well as the Command Team logs and
reports. Usually housed within a central Command
Post, Administration office or Extrasolar Colonial
Administration center these 50cm long black cylin-
ders are fitted with a handle for easy extraction and
mobility (heavy items).
THREE WORLD EMPIRE
The 3WE is focused on two things: bringing their
former colonies back within the fold before they can
be incorporated under the UNISC and keeping a lid on
the growing support for the break-away New Albion
Protectorate (NAPRO). Under their mission leader,
Colonel David Buston, they will jealously guard their
interests as former overlords of the Far Spinward
Colonies, and seek to suppress, and eventually crush,
the NAPRO sympathizers within their ranks (see the
campaign event Bring Them to Heel).
UNION OF PROGRESSIVE PEOPLES
The UPP, always wary, long suspected that the other
nations were conspiring to exclude them from the riches
to be found amongst the Far Spinward Colonies. To
avoid that outcome their mission leader, General Nurlan
Ozolinski, has taken steps to secure the new frontier for
the UPP alone. Two cells of six Ministry of Space Security
(MSS) operatives have infiltrated the expedition’s crew,
to gather intelligence on the strengths and weaknesses
of their rivals. Additionally, they have infiltrated two pla-
toons of Space Operating Forces, 60 soldiers, currently
lying in cryosleep masquerading as colonists.
When the time is right, they will awaken these sol-
diers, and take the Great Mother Mission by force (see
the expedition In The Shadow of Perfection). But that is
not all—the UPP secretly sent scouts, from its Cosmos
Exploration Corps, in four fast ships ahead of the Great
Mother Mission, to lay the ground for the UPP takeover
(see the campaign event UPP Dead in Space and the
expeditions The Devil Lives in Still Waters and In the
Shadow of Perfection).
INTERSTELLAR COMMERCE COMMISSION
Laboring under the disdain of every space-faring
organization, the ICC sees this expedition as the per-
fect time to re-assert their authority. As such, the ICC
inspectors are under orders from their chief, Superin-
tendent Jim Busby, to get into everything being done
by the expedition—they will be especially stringent
about quarantine protocols for items or specimens
that may be of extra-terrestrial origin. They are going
to make a nuisance of themselves and be a problem
for any treasure-hungry PCs (see the campaign event
Quarantine is Not a Dirty Word).
149G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
G EN ERAL N U R LAN OZO LIN S KI
THROOP RESCUE
AND RECOVERY
Austere and haughty, but compassionate, Ozo-
linski is a career UPP soldier, having risen from the
enlisted ranks to high command. He knows that
conflict is a necessary evil, but regrets that young
lives must be shattered through it—he witnessed
much death and suffering as a young SOF soldier.
He wishes that the Great Mother Mission could
have progressed as a collaboration, but this will
not stop him giving the order to take control
(see the expedition In the Shadow of Perfection).
However, if the PCs can convince him of the threat
presented by the Perfected (with an opposed
MANIPULATION test) he will order his men to
defend the UNCSS Ìyánlá first, before resolving
the political infighting of the mission itself.
STRENGTH 5, AGILITY 3, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 5
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Mobility 1, Ranged
Combat 2, Command 3, Manipulation 2,
Observation 2
Throop Rescue and Recovery is a highly
regarded private company under the leadership
of Alecto Throop. TR&R has been contracted
by the UN to provide support operations as
part of the Great Mother Mission and brings
three Corvus-class ships at the expedition’s
disposal. Throop answers to Governor Abantu.
TR&R can be called in to rescue the PCs should
they become stranded (see the campaign event
Throop to the Rescue).
Throop herself has had a long and exciting
career. Biologically in her 80s, she appears
about 50 years old. Many years ago, she had an
encounter with the XX121 Xenomorph, something
she will never forget.
THE MINOR
C O R P O R AT I O N S
Hyperdyne Corporation (under Director Pereira
Abrams), Omni-Tech Resources (CEO Kim Bak)
and the Kelland Mining Company (Prospector
General Lee Taylor) are all signed on for the
Great Mother Mission. They see this as the
chance to elevate their companies into the big
leagues and will scrabble for resource rights and
contracts as hard as anyone.
TALENT: Field Commander, Influence
GEAR: Covert body armor (Armor Rating 3),
MP-4043 Grach pistol.
THROOP’S NIGHTMARES
The PCs can learn much about the Xenomorphs from
Throop, should they seek her help once they have come
face to face with the space beast. They will need to
build a positive relationship with her, but once she hears
they have encountered the beast she will offer guidance,
at your discretion. She will finish by saying: “It is elegant,
fast and terrible. It exists to destroy and destroys to
exist. Once seen it will never be forgotten...”
15 0
THE NEW ALBION
P R O T E C T O R AT E
Not officially represented on the Great Mother
Mission, there are several members of the 3WE
who openly sympathize with the New Albion
Protectorate’s position. Led by the senior 3WE
administrator Lynna Young-Hee, this faction
gathers support as the campaign progresses,
until the 3WE decides to put a stop to it with
force (see the campaign event Bring Them to
Heel). ■9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
R U N N I N G T H E L O S T
W O R L D S C A M P A I G N
The campaign consists of seven scenarios—six expe-
ditions, playable in any order, and a climactic finale.
Outside of these, we are introducing a new concept
to this campaign: campaign events. Just like events
in a Cinematic scenario, campaign events provide
extra scenes and challenges for the PCs that can be
placed into the campaign whenever you like, binding
the overall story together and providing an exciting
countdown to the finale.
T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E : The campaign also presents
a Metapuzzle for the PCs to unravel. Each expedition
(and some campaign events) offers the PCs the chance
to find clues to that Metapuzzle which, by the end of
the sixth expedition, will reveal the terrible truth of the
Perfected’s plans—what the PCs do with that knowledge
is up to them. Read more about the Metapuzzle on
page 161. ■
HOW SANDY IS YOUR SANDBOX?
To make the most of the sandbox opportunities
to further explore, or even colonize, them. The
this campaign offers, you should allow your play-
rules here, and in the Appendix: Building Your
ers as much latitude as possible to chart their own
Own Better World, will help you create those
course through it. If you are comfortable creating
adventures, and the planets and new colonies that
additional adventures or scenes, either in the mar-
feature in them.
gins of the expeditions, or for colonies that are
However, don’t worry if that’s not your GM style.
not covered by the expeditions, your players will
The expeditions alone provide a full and exciting
get the deepest and most rewarding experience.
campaign—you will simply need to have the PCs
The six expeditions include all the information
directed to the appropriate colonies by a superior
you need on the planets the PCs will visit during
(either the UNCSS Ìyánlá’s synthetic overseer,
those adventures, in case you or your PCs want
Gaius, or Governor Abantu himself).
RUMORS, HEARSAY AND GOSSIP
Aside from the Metapuzzle clues, there is other
information the PCs can learn from almost any col-
onist NPC. You should feel free to give out these
details if the PCs have earned the information
from an NPC or other source:
TSince the Isolation, the colonies have fallen
apart. There has been little cross-colony com-
munication in decades.
TSome have chosen piracy, preying on the already
weakened colonies.
T
An organization known as the Cooperative is the
worst for raiding, kidnapping people and killing
those who resist.
TAll told, many hundreds of thousands must
have died.
TThe people of the Far Spinward Colonies are
angry with Weyland Corp and the 3WE, as they
feel they were deserted and left to rot.
TSome colonies have fallen to some kind of pesti-
lence that spread to more than one planet.
T
Some say that this pestilence is even worse, that
someone out there is actively spreading it.
TThere were rumors of new ships in the sector last
year, not from the colonies but from the Middle
Heavens.
151G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
T H E P L A Y E R
C H A R A C T E R S
In The Lost Worlds, the player characters are employ-
ees or contractors working on the Great Mother Mis-
sion. They have a job to do, but will be able to choose
where they go, what they do, and how they do it. They
will find the shattered fragments of former colonies,
brave new worlds to explore and exploit, the remnants
of an ancient civilization and the menace that threat-
ens the safety of every human alive.
T H E P C S ’ R O L E : The PCs are all members of the
same crew, serving on the UNCSS Solovetsky Island,
one of the mission’s four Magellan-class J Science
Exploration Vessels (SEV). While the ship has an NPC
crew that covers the basic roles needed on board, the
PCs can play any role on the vessel they please. Also,
the game is at its most “sandboxy” if one PC is the
ship’s commander.
P C A F F I L I AT I O N : Each PC will either be affiliated
to a supernation or mega corporation, or be an inde-
pendent contractor hired by the UNISC. Either choose
or roll on the table below to find out. Don’t worry if
you don’t like the outcome—your PC may be affiliated
in a certain way, but it brings great roleplaying oppor-
tunities if they don’t like it!
C O N N E C T I O N T O T H E M I S S I O N : Do the PCs
have any connection to the Great Mother Mission other
than the hunt for a great pay day? They will have their
own Personal Agendas and may be die-hard supporters
of one supernation or corporation. But this is about
their connection to the mission itself. Roll on the table
on the next page, or feel free to choose an option that
is consistent with the PC’s agenda and back story:
T H E P C S ’ R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S : As a member
of the Great Mother Mission, the PCs are paid to play
their part in that mission. They have a contract (on
page 172) and need to follow it.
E A R N I N G A L I V I N G : In the multi-faceted
conglomeration that is the Great Mother Mission,
differences in currencies and payment traditions
would have baked-in unfair practices and inequality
of reward. So, the UNISC adopted the Weyland-Yutani
dollar as the mission’s currency. Weekly pay for your
PCs, based on their roles within the mission, can be
found on page 162 of the core rulebook. Time in cryos-
leep is paid at a rate of one-quarter of the employee’s
salary per week.
Taking account of the months in cryosleep this may
feel like a lot, but it’s small beer for being away from
family and friends for years on end and facing the dan-
gers of deep space. The real money is made in bonuses
earned for finds, resource claims and extra-curricular
activities not covered in your basic contract.
PC AFFILIATION
152
2D6GOVERNMENT OR CORPORATION
2–3A minor corporation. Roll D6: 1–2 Hyperdyne Corporation, 3–4 Omni-Tech Resources, 5–6 the Kelland
Mining Corporation
4–5Weyland-Yutani
6Union of Progressive Peoples
7United Americas
8United Nations, or an independent operator contracted to them
9–10Three World Empire
11–12Interstellar Commerce Commission9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
CONNECTION TO THE MISSION
D6CONNECTION
1None—you’re in this for the money.
2You are curious about what happened out in the Far Spinward Colonies, but beyond that this is just a
job to you.
3The people of the colonies must be suffering. The Great Mother Mission is vital in helping them recover.
4Your ancestors settled in the Far Spinward Colonies before the Isolation—roll on the table on page 160 to
see which one. You need to find their descendants, or find out what happened to them, if you can.
5You and a few close family or friends are looking for a fresh start. They lie asleep aboard UNCSS Ìyánlá
while you work to find that new future.
6You’re all-in for a new life and future. Your entire family and many friends are in cryosleep on UNCSS Ìyánlá
waiting for you to find them their new home.
UNCSS SOLOVETSKY ISLAND
MANUFACTURER: WELAND YUTANIFTL RATING: 10ARMAMENTS: As an SEV the
CREW: 6–18SIGNATURE: +0AI: DA/UT/UR 2200THRUSTERS: +8LENGTH: 150 mHULL: 6Solovetsky Island only possesses
defensive capabilities. It has two
Sensor Drone hardpoints and
three Sensor Decoys (page 177
of the core rulebook)
ARMOR
RATING: 6
UNCSS SOLOVETSKY ISLAND
The UNCSS Solovetsky Island is one of four identical
vessels on the Great Mother Mission, along with the
UNCSS Umsindisi, Chimata-no-kami, and Typhoon.
It is a Magellan-class J SEV, with a crew of up to
16 and an FTL Rating of 10. It’s equipped with two
Class D Lifeboats, one configured as a science facility,
the other as a relief boat, along with 12 Class A EEV
pods. It carries four Daihotai series 8×8 Tractors, four
Alphatech XT-37C 4×4 off-road vehicles, two EVA-7C
salvage and rescue pods and two heavy excavators. It
has cryosleep beds for 18 people, and MedPods for 12
seriously injured patients.
The UNCSS Solovetsky Island can carry up to 100
for short journeys or in an emergency. The cargo hold
is full of humanitarian essentials with spare parts and
tools for any everyday problem. The crew is cross-
trained in multiple disciplines, but would usually
consist of the commander, two pilot-navigators, two
mechanics, two security officers, one scientist, one
prospector and the ICC Protocol Inspector. In addition
to the crew, the ship is equipped with two Working
Joe androids, dubbed James and Miss Sophie by
the crew.
The crew of the Solovetsky Island, as well as those
of all other Great Mother Mission Science Exploration
Vessels, are fitted with Personal Data Transmitters
(PDTs, page 132 of the core rulebook) that can be
detected at a distance of 20 km.
T H E P C S ’ C R E W : The PCs’ crew forms a vital part
of the campaign, as they will be along for the ride.
Some will be antagonists, distrustful of the PCs and
seeking to out-maneuver them at every turn. Others
will become friends and help the PCs when they
least expect it. Some may die and will not only have
an impact on the PCs when they do, but may need
replacing with a new crew member from the UNCSS
Ìyánlá. ■
153G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
D ECK A
STANDING
COMMAND
U N C S S
S O L O V E T S K Y
I S L A N D
NAV
PILOT
LIFE
SENSORS CAPIAIN
SUPPORT
CONSOLE
MAGELLAN-CLASS J SEV
S C I E N T I F I C E X P L O R AT O R Y V E S S E L
TACTICAL
DECK
COMMS
ICC
HOLO
TABLE
A
AIRLOCKCRYOSLEEP
PODS
ELEVATORESCAPE POD
MEDLABOBSERVATION
MEDKITINTERCOM
EVA SUITSACCESS
TERMINAL
2×2 METERS
AIRLOCK
CRYO 1
EVA
SUITS
CAPTAIN
JCT
DA/
UT/
UR
READY
ROOM
CRYO 2
SHOWER
GALLEY
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
BREFING
ROOM
ADMIN
OFFICE
BUNK
ROOM
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
JCT
HIGH VALUE
STORAGE
BUNK ROOM
ENGINE
POD 1
ENGINE
POD 2
INFIRMARY
STORES
MED
PODS
MESS
HALL
QUIET
ROOM SCIENCE
STORES
SCIENCE 1
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
RELIEF
SUPPLIES
SCIENCE 2
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
JCT
SCIENCE 3
ENGINE
POD 3
CLASS D
RELIEF
BOAT
CLASS D
SCIENCE
BOAT
EEV
PODS
15 4
ENGINE
POD 49 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
D ECK B
U N C S S
S O L O V E T S K Y
I S L A N D
ELEVATORWORKSHOP
MEDKITRADIOACTIVE
AREA
INTERCOMACCESS
TERMINAL
MAGELLAN-CLASS J SEV
S C I E N T I F I C E X P L O R AT O R Y V E S S E L
DECK
B
2×2 METERS
MAINTENANCE
JCT
CARGO 1
CARGO 2
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
CARGO
LIFT
ENGINE
POD 1
JCT
CARGO
LIFT
CARGO
OFFICE
ENGINE
POD 2
OPEN TO
DECK C
OPEN TO
DECK C
CAYWALK
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
JCT
AIR SCRUBBERS
ENGINE
POD 3
COLANT TANKS
REACTOR
ENGINE
CONTROL
ENGINE
POD 4
155G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
D ECK C
U N C S S
S O L O V E T S K Y
I S L A N D
AIRLOCKWORKSHOP
ELEVATORINTERCOM
MEDKITACCESS
TERMINAL
MAGELLAN-CLASS J SEV
S C I E N T I F I C E X P L O R AT O R Y V E S S E L
DECK
C
2×2 METERS
LOWERABLE RAMP
AIRLOCK
AIRLOCK
HANGAR DOORS
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
CARGO
LIFT
JCT
CARGO
LIFT
ENGINE
POD 1
ENGINE
POD 2
STORES
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
HANGAR
DOOR
HANGAR
DOOR
ELEVATOR
DECK A-C
JCT
AIRLOCK
ENGINE
POD 3
15 6
QUARANTINE
VEHICLE
WORKSHOP
ENGINE
POD 49 .
C R E W:
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
PILOT ANDI “D UDG E” D UDG EO N
He has no political axe to grind and supports the
aims of the Great Mother Mission. However, General
Ozolinski is using Dudge’s wife and child, in cryos-
leep aboard Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá,, as a lever to get Dudge to feed
useful information back to the UPP. He doesn’t want
to betray his shipmates, but his family will always
come first.
As the campaign progresses Dudge will find this
harder and harder to do, and the stress will show. If
the PCs are kind to him, he may relent and tell them
the UPP are using him as a spy. Dudge does not know
about the UPP’s plans to take control of the Great
Mother Mission.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 3
A lover of classical pop music from the 1980s, Dudge
was run out of the Three World Empire for disobeying
orders. He joined the UPP as a mercenary, married
and made a life, becoming a naturalized UPP citizen
in 2170.
C R E W:
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Piloting 4, Mobility 2, Ranged Combat 2,
Comtech 2, Observation 2
TALENT: Like the Back of Your Hand
GEAR: Presidium Mark VIII Advanced SE Suit, Rexim
RXF-M5A3 EVA Pistol, M72 Starshell flare pistol
CO U N S ELO R LAKOTA M O N RO E
However, she openly approves of the New Albion
Protectorate breaking away from the 3WE. She has no
love for the UPP and will oppose them at every turn.
Her role on the ship is that of counselor, medic, nego-
tiator, and ambassador.
As the campaign progresses and she sees the car-
nage that is the Far Spinward Colonies after the 3WE
abandoned them, she will become increasingly disil-
lusioned and angry with the 3WE, disobeying orders
and picking fights with 3WE shipmates.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Close Combat 1, Command 2, Manipulate 3,
Comtech 2, Observation 3, Medical Aid 2
Monroe is proud of her ancient native Māori heritage,
and her success within the 3WE hierarchy.
TALENT: Influence
GEAR: Seegson P-DAT, medkit
157G A M E
M O T H E R
C R E W:
S E C T I O N
P ROS P ECTO R EMILY Q UINTANA
Quintana is an independent contractor, although she
hails from the UA city of Zihuatanejo. She distrusts
any big corporation and has little interest in politics.
Her job is to prospect and assess colonies for com-
mercial potential and development, but she just wants
to get rich and doesn’t care who she tramples to do it.
As the campaign progresses, she will keep an eye
on how the PCs behave—are they hoarding finds just
for themselves? If they are, Quintana will eventually
demand to be cut into their scam or she will report
them to the ICC authorities.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 5, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Heavy Machinery 1, Ranged Combat 1,
Observation 2, Comtech 2, Medical Aid 2, Piloting 1
TALENT: Second Wind
GEAR: Biohazard suit, CBR detection kit
C R E W:
S ECU RITY HAMIDAH AMIR
Amir was a Royal Marine before joining the expedition.
Resourceful and strong-willed, she is disgusted that
the New Albion Protectorate has had the audacity
to break away from the 3WE. She hasn’t confronted
Monroe on her views, for the good of the crew and the
expedition, but she’s had to bite her tongue.
As the campaign progresses, she can’t wait to get
home and put the NAPRO back in its box, at the point
of her rifle. With Lakota Monroe getting increasingly
vocal in support of the NAPRO, Amir gets angrier. She
will use force to make Monroe shut her mouth.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Ranged Combat 2,
Observation 2, Piloting 1, Medical Aid 1
TALENT: Past the Limit
GEAR: Personnel armor (Armor Rating 6), M41A
Pulse Rifle, Weyland ES-7 Shockgun, combat knife
JAM ES AND MISS SO P HIE
Nowhere near as advanced as Weyland Corp or Hyper-
dyne’s synthetics, these Working Joes are simply
designed to follow basic instructions and perform
menial tasks.
15 8
They have cheap rubberized skin that gives them
the appearance of animated mannequins. James and
Miss Sophie, like the other Working Joes on the Great
Mother Mission, are secretly slaved to MU/TH/UR
9000, allowing her to take direct control of them.9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
C R E W:M ECHANIC DAVO R
KO B LENZC R E W:
UPP through and through, the grizzled Koblenz
is a staunch man of the People and covert MSS
operative. He cares deeply that the little folk
should be rewarded for hard work well done. He
knows about the UPP’s plans to take control of the
Far Spinward Colonies but will resist any attempt
to get information out of him.
When the time comes for the UPP to take con-
trol, how Koblenz behaves towards the PCs will
depend on how the PCs have treated him during
the campaign.Blatchman is a career ICC Inspector. He’s heartily
fed up with the likes of Weyland-Yutani flagrantly
disregarding the rules and regulations, then
laughing and getting off scot-free when they get
caught. He is determined to see that this boat
follows the letter of the law and has a clean record,
and damn what the others on board have to say
about it.
STRENGTH 5, AGILITY 3, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 5
SKILLS: Close Combat 1, Ranged Combat 2,
Comtech 2, Heavy Machinery 3, Manipulation 3
TALENT: True Grit
ICC IN S P ECTO R
TAN B LATCH MAN
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Close Combat 1, Command 2,
Comtech 3, Manipulation 2, Observation 3
TALENT: Stealthy
GEAR: Expedition fatigues in ICC livery, Seegson
System Diagnostic Device, electronic tools
GEAR: Expedition fatigues, an early issue UPP
ratchet, UPP-branded cap, Weyland ES-7 Shockgun
E X P L O R I N G T H E F A R
S P I N W A R D C O L O N I E S
A total of 18 star systems were colonized before the
Isolation. Four are featured with detailed expeditions
written for them that will develop the PCs’ under-
standing of the Metapuzzle (see page 161). However,
there are another 14 previously colonized worlds that
the PCs could visit as part of the wider campaign, two
expeditions where they will have the opportunity to
colonize new worlds, and the PCs may wish to seek
out entirely new planets for colonies to start afresh
(using the rules in the Appendix: Building Your Own
Better World on page 275).
159G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
The table below gives you some up-to-date informa-
tion for every colony the PCs may want to visit and
notes any relevant expedition or campaign event
linked to that colony. Where these don’t exist, you
16 0
can randomly generate the current situation on those
colonies, using the table on the next page to help.
These provide a framework for you to build your own
story for the other colonies. ■
D66COLONYSITUATION IN 2185EXPEDITION OR CAMPAIGN EVENT
11–12KOI-2650.01Gorham Colony, a desolate and
wind-swept mining colony, where
only one outpost survives.Expedition Home Sweet Home
13–14KOI-784.01Dylan Colony, a small community
persists with some having turned
to barbarism.Expedition To Go My Own Dark Way
15–16KOI-610.01May Outpost, a population of thou-
sands survive under the control of
the Cooperative, with an Engineer
pyramid nearby.Expedition The Devil Lives in Still Waters
21–22KOI-947.01Pelican Colony, once the breadbas-
ket of the sector, now an irradiated
wasteland due to stellar activity
with a crashed Engineer Guard-
ian ship.Expedition Let Sleeping Gods Lie
23–24KOI-1938Sanchez Colony has been
destroyed—it’s a nuclear wasteland
and no survivors remain.The campaign finale In the Shadow of Perfection
25–26KOI-723.01Kareti Colony. Taken by the
Perfected and now a planetary
Proto-Hive.Campaign event Gorham’s Marauders
31–32KOI-1739.01July Colony. Taken by the Per-
fected and now a planetary
Proto-Hive.Campaign event Gorham’s Marauders
33–34KOI-2290.01Capelli Colony. Taken by the
Perfected and now a planetary
Proto-Hive.Campaign event Gorham’s Marauders
35–36KOI-2418.01Curzic Outpost, formerly under the
CANC, this world fell into civil war.
Those who could leave, left.Roll on the Colony Situation Table
41–42KOI-323.08Platte Outpost—unknown.43–44KOI-817.01Brahms Outpost—unknown.45–46KOI-1361.01Blue Jay Colony—unknown.51–52KOI-1404.03Archimedes Colony—unknown.53–54KOI-1430.01Ute Colony—unknown.55–56KOI-1686.01Nightingale Colony—unknown.61–62KOI-2020.01January Outpost—unknown.63–64KOI-2469.01October Colony—unknown.65–66KOI-2770.01Izvinite Colony—unknown.9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
COLONY SITUATION
Roll once per column or choose.
D66SURVIVORSSOCIETYPROBLEMFEATURERESOURCES
11–14None.None, it’s anarchy—any
survivors scrabble like
vermin to survive.The planet is a deso-
late wasteland.A beacon faintlyAbysmal, this
beeping.place has nothing
It’s total anarchy.The planet is a deso-
late wasteland.Underground survivalPoor, archaeological
shelters, open andinterest only.
15–22
None.
going for it.
abandoned.
23–26
31–34
35–42
None.
A scattered
handful.
A scattered
handful.
Cultural collapse. Survi-
vors speak a dialect the
PCs don’t understand.A shift in the environ-
ment has made the
climate scorching hot
or deeply frozen.An intensely radioac-Poor, some low-
tive source, maskinglevel finds.
Barbarism, although
loyalty in family groups.A disease has laid
waste to any life on
this planet.Excavated skeletons ofAverage, there may
many giant beasts liebe potential here.
Indigenous predatory
life stalks the world.An atmosphereAverage, there may
processor on over-be potential here.
Tribal groups fight one
another.
something more
interesting.
in the dust.
drive, churning out
exotic gasses.
43–46
51–54
Small pock-
ets of life.
A few hun-
dred souls
at most.A wary society but little
conflict.Severe volcanic or
geological activity.Ghostly signals with noAverage, there may
obvious origin.be potential here.
A small
population of
2D6 hundred.A tenuous religious
authority holds survivors
together.There is wreckage of
a ship in orbit or on
the ground.An ‘ark’ either in orbitGood, this planet
or on the ground,looks promising,
containing samples ofwith some easy
the life that was oncepickings.
on this world.
55–62
A popula-
tion of D6
thousand.A warlord rules through
strength and fear.
A popula-
tion of 2D6
thousand.It’s an orderly and peace-
ful community.
A Xenomorph variant
is loose on this world.
A smashed Engi-Good, this planet
neer relic.looks promising,
with some easy
pickings.
63–66
T H E
It’s too late, the
Perfected are already
here and it’s becom-
ing a Proto-Hive.
A signal from the shipSuperb, this is a
of a junior member ofGarden of Eden for a
the 3WE royal family.prospector!
M E T A P U Z Z L E
The six clues to the Metapuzzle will ultimately allow
the PCs to reach the following understanding:
The Perfected spread an infection that wipes out life
as the PCs know it, and they are intent on spreading it
across the galaxy. But they need ships robust enough
to travel the 30-parsec distance to the Middle Heavens,
and the navigational data to make the journey—they
are actively searching for both. However, the Perfected
also believe that an Engineer relic, called “the Lych-
gate,” will allow them to instantly make the crossing.
This gate can be found in orbit around a super gas giant,
called Ojo, in the KOI-1938 system.
161G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
But there is a twist—the Perfected know full-well they
cannot operate the Lychgate, but it’s a technological
prize of such value they reason the humans will flock
to it once they know it exists. The Perfected will use
the Lychgate as a honey trap, to lure Ìyánlá to them so
they can capture it and all its bounty.
Each clue is listed here with details on where the
PCs can find it, and handouts are provided for your
players (page 172). As the campaign is a sandbox
and the expeditions can be played in any order, some
care is needed to ensure the clues build the Metapuzzle
picture at the right pace. The key clue is #5, which
gives the PCs the spatial coordinates for the Lychgate
itself. The clue states that DA/UT/UR 2200 aboard the
Solovetsky Island is required to decode the coordinates,
so it is entirely in your power to decide when that
decoding is done, and the coordinates become avail-
able. This should happen towards the end or after you
have played the first six missions, setting the PCs up for
the race to the Lychgate and the finale.
THE SIX CLUES
# 1 D ATA B A S E R E A D - O U T F R O M H M C S S
J A N K U : Found during the expedition Home Sweet
Home, this clue explains that Gorham’s Marauders
are wiping navigation data from any ships and data-
bases they can find and trying to stop the Perfected
from spreading across space. The PCs should come
to understand that there is a threat within the Far
Spinward colonies that is seeking navigation data and
wants to reach the Middle Heavens.
# 2 M O T H E R M A’ K AY L A’ S C R U M P L E D
L E T T E R : Found during the expedition To Go My
Own Dark Way, this clue explains that the Children of
the Two Divines are looking for ship parts and naviga-
tion data, are actively helping the Perfected, and have
brought them some “gifts’’ (XX121 Ovomorphs) from
the Middle Heavens. The PCs learn about the Children
of the Two Divines, that they answer to someone or
something they revere, and some information on the
history of the Engineers and Xenomorphs taken from
the journal of the Grand Seer, Jannes Ruedi.
# 3 T H E E N G I N E E R H O L O - G LY P H S I N T H E
E N G I N E E R C I T Y : This clue is found during the
expedition Leave All Else to The Gods, and hints that
the Engineers created the Xenomorphs and the Per-
fected. Realizing they could not control their creations,
16 2
the Engineers fled this sector of space using a device
they called the Lychgate.
# 4 T H E E N G I N E E R H I E R O G LY P H I N T H E
P Y R A M I D : Found during the expedition The Devil
Lives In Still Waters, this clue reveals that the Lych-
gate exists, and is some kind of gigantic Engineer
relic that allows for instantaneous travel to anywhere
in the universe.
# 5 I N T E R P R E TAT I O N O F T H E H O L O G R A M
O R R E RY A B OA R D T H E E N G I N E E R J U G G E R -
N A U T : Found during the expedition Against A Sea
Of Troubles, this clue gives the coded coordinates for
the Lychgate, and shows it orbits a super gas giant. It
makes it clear that the Perfected intend to go there
and that the Engineers wanted to keep this artifact
from them. The PCs need DA/UT/UR 2200 to decode
the coordinates, and this may take some time.
# 6 T H E E N G I N E E R H I E R O G LY P H I N T H E
G U A R D I A N S H I P W R E C K A G E : Found during the
expedition Let Sleeping Gods Lie, this clue reveals that
the Engineers created the Perfected and the Xenom-
orphs, that the Perfected forced the Engineers to flee
from the Far Spinward Colonies region of space, and
both the Engineers and the Perfected worship or revere
the xenomorph, what they call the Destroying Angel. ■9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
D O W N T I M E
EXPEDITION REPORTS
At the end of an expedition, the crew are expected to
file a report. In game terms, the PCs report back to the
android Gaius on UNCSS Ìyánlá (either in person or
on comms), and he assesses the bonus situation. This
should be role-played with the GM and should cover:
A debriefing of the expedition.
Recommendations for the future of the planet or
colony in question.
Requests for crew replacements, re-fuelling and
supplies / repairs.
Requests for bonuses based on:
Activities over and above the call of duty—“that
wasn’t in my contract!” (1–2 extra weeks’ salary)
The discovery of something of financial or scientific
value but without samples—“we found something
weird and pissed off, here are the co-ordinates!”
(1–3 extra weeks’ salary)
The acquisition of specimens or samples of poten-
tially valuable assets—“we found this…. Quick! Grab
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
it before it runs off again!” (1–10 extra weeks’ salary,
depending on the asset)
The acquisition of xenobiological or Engineer
specimens or artifacts—“if this don’t kill me, I’m
gonna buy me a planet to retire on!” (10+ weeks’
extra salary)
The PCs should justify their claims and defend against
the claims of others (PCs and NPCs) who may try to
steal their credit, and their bonuses. This may require
an opposed MANIPULATION test. However, the PCs
should always feel hard done by, and aggrieved at the
low rewards their hard work and personal risk seems
to earn.
Once this is complete the PCs should decide where
to survey next, possibly guided by the GM through the
NPC Gaius.
DOWNTIME INCIDENTS
Between expeditions there’s likely to be time to kill,
either through re-supplies and repairs, or time travel-
ing to the next expedition. Aside from spending their
hard-earned XP, there are two things that can happen:
1 Each player takes center stage and narrates a
scene involving their PC, how they are using their
downtime, who they are spending it with and what
they are doing. It might be an emotional moment
(eg, checking on their husband in cryosleep on
UNCSS Ìyánlá, or bearing their all over the horrors
of the last expedition), or funny, exciting or plain
mundane. But whatever the moment is, it belongs
to that player and their PC, although the other
players should be encouraged to build and develop
the scene if they wish.
2 They can hear about how the rest of the Great
Mother Mission is faring. Roll on the table on
page 164 and fold the results into your growing
campaign. ■
163G A M EM O T H E R
S E C T I O N
D6DOWNTIME INCIDENTS
1A random (non-expedition) colony has been explored. The PCs hear the results.
2Nothing much to report—all is in good order.
3There has been unrest between different factions within the Great Mother Mission.
Either: the 3WE has been struggling with NAPRO sympathizers.
Or: members of the UA and UPP have scuffled, and one person has been hospitalized.
Or: the UNISC has tried to mediate between the antagonistic factions but only made things worse.
4There is news from home.
Either: the UA-UPP Frontier War is escalating, and hostilities are spreading.
Or: more worlds have seceded from the 3WE and joined NAPRO.
5Either: An unknown disease has been sweeping through the UNCSS Ìyánlá’s crew. It doesn’t seem serious, but
she’s been quarantined by the ICC for D6 weeks. No re-supplies or major repairs are available until the ICC
lifts the quarantine.
Or: The UNCSS Ìyánlá has suffered damage from a local neutrino burst. It’s not serious but she must stop and
undergo essential repairs for the next 6D6 days.
6A maintenance failure on the UNCSS Ìyánlá and D6 × 100 sleeping colonists die. You decide if any of these are
connected with the PCs, or if there was foul play behind the malfunction.
S E S S I O N
“Session Zero” is the thrilling start to the campaign.
Your players should create their PCs together and
decide what roles each will play aboard their ship, the
UNCSS Solovetsky Island. They will discover their polit-
ical affiliations, family connections and learn of their
NPC crewmates. They should be given Mission Contract
WHAT’S THE STORY MOTHER?
Your Magellan SEV docks gently with the UNCSS
Ìyánlá, secured to its docking ring alongside the
three other SEVs—the Umsindisi, Chimata-no-kami
and Typhoon. As clamps thunder quietly shut, you
send a cheerful farewell message to Ìyánlá’s cap-
tain, Tadesse Kondwani. “See you in two years!”
comes the reply from the ship’s android, Gaius,
before you head to the cryo deck. Your ship’s DA/
UT/UR flickers her lights, and your canopy starts
to close. The last thing you see is the distorted
image of your ship’s Working Joes—James and
Miss Sophie, as you call them—and the last thing
you hear is one of them whisper: “sleep well.”
102 weeks and 5 days later, and thousands of
W-Y dollars banked already—this is the way to make
a living! Well, you think that until hyper-sickness
16 4
Z E R O
and Colony Status handouts (page 172), giving them
information on the Great Mother Mission and the eigh-
teen colonies the mission is going to re-discover.
Once your players have had the time to ready them-
selves and ask any questions about the mission and
their role in it, read the following text out loud:
kicks in and for the next twenty minutes you wish
you were dead. An hour later and you’re ready for
the post-arrival briefing. You and the rest of the
crew file quietly through the airlock, board the
immense UNCSS Ìyánlá where you eventually take
a seat in the spacious mess hall, alongside your
fellow pioneers. The room buzzes with conversa-
tion, one hundred voices all talking about the same
things: Have we arrived? What news from home?
This coffee is still shit.
Then Governor Kholwa Abantu stands at the
front, and calls for quiet:
“First, the good news. We have all arrived on
the fringes of the Far Spinward Colonies with-
out a hitch. Home is now more than 30 parsecs
behind us.”9 .
“But talking of home, here’s the bad news. The
United Americas and Union of Progressive Peoples
are at war. Fighting has broken out across the
frontier and hostilities are ongoing. Furthermore,
the world of New Albion has broken away from the
3WE and while there are no hostilities yet, some
fear it may come to blows. But the political stupid-
ities of our governments do not change the situa-
tion here. We are a United Nations expedition and
have a mission to fulfill for the good of humankind,
so leave your petty political rivalries back in the
Middle Heavens!”
“And talking of bad news. We have not picked
up any signals, as we had hoped we might. What
this says about the fates of the people out here, we
won’t know until we explore. But as a precaution,
for now we will keep two of our SEVs with Ìyánlá
and send only two—Typhoon and Solovetsky
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
Island—to reconnoiter the old colonies. Good luck
everyone, and please be careful out there.”
There’s a moment’s silence, then pandemonium
breaks out right before you. Valentina Berezi of
the United Americas leaps to her feet, pointing her
finger at the UPP General, Nurlan Ozolinski: “We
can never trust you UPP bastards!” Ozolinski pulls
himself to his impressive height, tense, restrained.
Others start to shout, while Colonel Buston and
Lynna Young-Hee of the 3WE try to intervene until
they fall into an argument about the New Albion
Protectorate. W-Y Director Kamal Vartouhi stands
still to one side, arms crossed, an onlooker, while
Governor Abantu waves his arms in a futile attempt
to restore peace. Alecto Throop, the freelance
search and rescue captain sitting next to you, leans
over—calm and collected—she says: “Didn’t think I’d
have to rescue people from inside the mothership!”
K I C K I N G O F F T H E C A M PA I G N
The campaign kicks off right here. If the PCs don’t
intervene the arguments will escalate, and blows will
be exchanged between lower ranked UA and UPP offi-
cers. The likes of Valentina Berezi and Nurlan Ozolinski
will control themselves, just.
At a suitable moment, the PCs will notice the
android Gaius has sidled up to them. He says: “Quite a
display, wouldn’t you say? I’m not convinced that these
missions shouldn’t be android only, if you ask me.” He
hands them a data disc: “Your assignments. I see little
point in delaying your departure any further. I’ll brief
you in detail when you’re en route.”
The disc contains details of the colonies from the
Colony Status handout, with three expedition locations
of your choice (not including the finale), highlighted
by Gaius as the PCs’ initial assignments, to be tackled
in any order they please. Once an expedition has been
completed Gaius should give them another assignment,
so the PCs have three options for as long as possi-
ble. You should feel free to add colony locations not
covered by the expeditions (using the tables on page
279 to generate a scenario for those locations) or
send your PCs on colonial survey expeditions to find
new planets to colonize (using the rules on page 275
to generate new star systems and worlds), but these
are entirely optional—you do not have to do this to
have a full and exciting frontier campaign.
EXPEDITIONS
H O M E S W E E T H O M E : Gorham Colony, KOI-
2650.01. An arid and dusty planet, a mining colony of
reportedly 1 million colonists in 2100. The PCs discover
just one settlement of only two families, but their
arrival re-ignites a deadly feud. They must prevent the
feud killing the last survivors of Gorham Colony, as the
planet itself tries to kill them all.
T O G O M Y O W N D A R K WAY : Dylan Colony,
KOI-784.01. A humid world of extreme temperatures
and tropical jungles, with extensive caverns exploited
for mining in 2100. The PCs find a society on a knife-
edge—a primitive community terrorized by feral
barbarians, refugees from the Children of the Two
Divines begging for help, and the death cult come to
demand their wayward children back.
1 65G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
L E AV E A L L E L S E T O T H E G O D S : Sent on a
colonization expedition, the PCs find they are not the
first to arrive here. But, under orders from Governor
Abantu himself, they establish a new colony. As the
colony lays down roots the PCs make a terrible discov-
ery—the ancient ruins of an Engineer city, and the hor-
rors that await therein. They must confront the secrets
of the city, to save themselves and the new colony.
T H E D E V I L L I V E S I N S T I L L WAT E R S : May
Outpost, KOI-610.01. The PCs find a working community,
but on the verge of insurrection. Can they bring peace to
this conflicted society, prevent the UPP from taking con-
trol, and explore the secrets—and avoid the dangers—of
an ancient Engineer pyramid, revealed by an earthquake?
A G A I N S T A S E A O F T R O U B L E S : The PCs
are ordered to search for the missing ship, UNCSS
Typhoon, and find it dead in space, its crew missing
after the Perfected tried to capture it. They trace its
path back to the two moons of a gas giant, to find one
swamped by the Perfected’s living Proto-Hive. They
must explore a derelict Engineer Juggernaut and
confront the Perfected to save the Typhoon’s crew and
escape alive to raise the alarm.
L E T S L E E P I N G G O D S L I E : Pelican Colony, KOI-
947.01. Once a glorious agricultural paradise, Pelican
Colony has been swept clean by solar radiation. The
UNCSS Solovetsky Island finds a crashed ship—Gor-
ham’s Marauders—come to hunt the Perfected.
Harassed by automatons trying to protect them, the
PCs mount an expedition to an Engineer Guardian ship
and must face the horrors that lurk in the ancient vessel.
I N T H E S H A D O W O F P E R F E C T I O N : In orbit
around the planet Ojo, KOI-1938. The finale, as the
PCs follow the clues to the Metapuzzle, and find the
Engineer Lychgate. They face the Fulfremmen and
Xenomorph hives aboard the structure, as both the
UPP and the Perfected execute their plans to capture
UNCSS Ìyánlá for themselves. ■
C A M P A I G N
These campaign level events are intended to increase
the tension of your campaign, as well as signal a
countdown to the climactic last expedition, In the
Shadow of Perfection. Some can be introduced at any
time, or even played more than once, while others are
intended to be introduced as the campaign matures.
Guidance is provided in each event.
THROOP TO THE RESCUE
To be used at any time. Throop R&R will send one of
their vessels, a standard Model CM-90S Corvus (page
180 of the core rulebook, but with an FTL rating of 4),
commanded by Alecto Throop herself, to rescue the
PCs. How this plays out will depend on the PCs’ circum-
stances that require their rescue, but the rescue should
go wrong, or be hampered in some way. The GM should
decide how many days away rescue is, remembering
that the PCs will have to hold out against whatever
terrors are facing them until help arrives.
166
E V E N T S
QUARANTINE IS
NOT A DIRTY WORD
To be played at any time, but ideally when the
PCs have made a big find and want to hide it
from the ICC. The ICC have had enough with
the endemic efforts to subvert their regula-
tions and pull the wool over their eyes. The
ICC Inspector, Tan Blatchman, orders all acqui-
sitions and finds to be impounded indefinitely
and placed into quarantine, and instructs the
security team to enforce his ruling. All finds,
specimens and samples that are aboard the
PCs’ ship, or brought aboard, will be thor-
oughly double-checked, and any that might
contravene ICC quarantine rules (such as
Xenomorph samples or eggs, or any Engineer
tech) will be seized. The security officer on
board, Hamidah Amir, is torn—she supports
the ICC, but also sees the prospects for extra
bonuses. How will the PCs try to convince
Blatchman or Amir to turn a blind eye to their
misdemeanors?9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
MU/TH/UR KNOWS BEST
To be played at any time. Weyland-Yutani, in the form
of Gaius and MU/TH/UR 9000, suspect that the PCs
are not telling them the truth about the treasures they
have discovered. They put pressure on the PCs to
supply their finds only to W-Y, and hint that if this was
done without the oversight of the ICC or knowledge
of the other factions, the PCs would be very well
rewarded indeed. If the PCs decline, or agree but
have no intention of following through, MU/TH/UR
takes control of the ship’s Working Joe androids,
and uses them to covertly search for, and remove,
any exciting finds without the PCs’ knowledge (with
MU/TH/UR’s oversight, the Working Joes have OBSER-
VATION 7, COMTECH 6 and MOBILITY 5). When the PCs
next check they may find their exciting discoveries
are gone.
BAITING THE BEAR
To be played at any time. The PCs hear of unrest on
the UNCSS Ìyánlá, with elements of the UA contingent
skirmishing with UPP loyalists. It hasn’t blown up into
fighting yet, but it’s a powder keg and people are play-
ing with fire. On the PCs’ ship, the 3WE ship’s counselor
and negotiator, Monroe starts gently baiting Koblenz,
the UPP mechanic and any PCs who are UPP-affiliated.
If the PCs do nothing, this will turn into a fight, with
Koblenz throwing the first punch after Monroe’s prov-
ocation. Depending on how the PCs resolve this, either
one or both Monroe and Koblenz will hold grudges
against them, for favoring the other in the dispute.
N O T S O S TAT E - O F -T H E - A R T
To be played at any time. The SEVs so generously pro-
vided by Weyland-Yutani aren’t as super as everyone
was led to believe—cutting corners and saving costs
in construction means they all suffer from relentless
mechanical glitches and failures. Whenever you wish,
roll on the Minor Component Damage table on page
198 of the core rulebook, and the UNCSS Solovetsky
Island suffers yet another breakdown. The repair takes
one Shift to complete, but if the roll is failed, the PCs
cannot make the repair until they dock with the facili-
ties on the UNCSS Ìyánlá.
C O O P E R AT I V E R A I D E R S
To be played at any time. A Cooperative raiding party
(one Heliades-class ship with two drop shuttles, each
with eight soldiers) appears on the horizon and
proceeds to land near the PCs. They are on a snatch
and grab raid, looking for skilled people they can take
home and put to work. If the PCs have completed the
expedition The Devil Lives in Still Waters, they will
have dealt with the Cooperative before, and this event
will play out depending on whether the Cooperative
are friends or enemies. Otherwise, this will be the first
time they come across the Cooperative—the soldiers
will be wary of the PCs, as they are obviously well-
equipped with advanced technology, but will still look
to kidnap some locals (or even the PCs).
167G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
U P P D E A D I N S PAC E
T This is an advanced scouting vessel, built by the UPP
To be played at any time. A UPP Cosmos Exploration
Corps scout ship has been attacked by the Perfected.
Before they were all killed, the UPP commander used a
demolition charge to destroy the bridge (and himself)
to deny the boarders the vessel (and the nav data).
The PCs detect this vessel in space. It’s lost its air and
power, its side door has been blown off and it’s in a
slow roll. Three Proto-Hive Nodes, fleshy man-sized
blobs, are on board, in Tactical, the Galley, and Mainte-
nance. They are slowly converting the vessel into a tiny
Proto-Hive. If the PCs board and investigate they can
learn the following:
T
S O K O L
ENGINE
U P P COS M OS E X P LO R AT I O N CO R P S SCO U T
CRYO
BUNKS
2×2 METERS
CARGO
GALLEY
MAINTENANCE
BUNKS
CARGO
THE UNDERBELLY
AIRLOCK
ENGINE
CAPT
EVA
SUITS
ARMORY
TACTICAL
STORES
READY
DECK
AIRLOCK
HANGAR
DOOR
16 8
STORES
BRIDGE
MAIN DECK
MAIN ENGINE
ENGINEERING
S S V
T
(as far as they know, the Great Mother Mission does
not have this class of ship in its flotilla).
The bridge was deliberately destroyed, but a suc-
cessful COMTECH roll can retrieve two snippets: the
nav data was deliberately wiped before the explo-
sion that destroyed the bridge, and a reference to
“the Great Mother Mission Space Operating Forces
contingent...”
There are crates of modern UPP weapons and equip-
ment on board, including AK-4047 rifles and 6B90
Combat Armor.
REACTOR9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
FAC I N G T H E M A R A U D E R S
Should be played mid-campaign. The PCs detect a
ship on their scanners. It is a Gorham’s Marauders’
Corvus Model CM-90S, with ten crew and armed with
one Long Lance ASAT missile, four Short Lance ASATs
and a Medium Railgun Turret. They intend to wipe
the PCs’ navigation data. Hailed by J.V. Gorham, she
orders them to stand-to and prepare to be boarded. If
the PCs cooperate, the Marauders will be firm but not
violent. They will proceed to board and wipe the ves-
sel’s navigation data, re-installing enough for them to
navigate the Far Spinward Colonies. If the PCs resist,
the pirates will use enough force to convince them to
surrender. If they run, the pirates will use their ship’s
weapons in an attempt to disable them. If the PCs try
talking to Gorham, they may make an opposed MANIP-
ULATION test to get Gorham to respond. If they suc-
ceed, they can learn the details of the first campaign
clue (page 162), or have those details confirmed, if
they have already found it. If the PCs have completed
the expedition Let Sleeping Gods Lie they may have
met J.V. Gorham before, and this event will play out
depending on the relationship the PCs built with her.
WOLF IN SHEEP’S CLOTHING
Should be played mid-campaign. The PCs detect
another vessel, a Heliades-class (page 74).
Unknown to them, it’s the Children of the Two Divines
who have detected their ship and want to capture it
for themselves. The devotees send a distress signal,
calling for medical and humanitarian aid, claiming they
have been drifting for days since their engines failed
(a scan with a successful COMTECH roll will reveal
that the Heliades’ engines are warm, and have been
recently operational). If asked, they will claim to be
from Sanchez Colony, not realizing that the PCs may
know that Sanchez was destroyed years ago. If the
PCs dock, the Children will simply rush the airlock as
soon as it opens, gaining surprise unless the players
specifically state they are being cautious. Eight of the
crew of twelve will rush aboard, to capture it, but at
the least download navigation data from the bridge
before fleeing. If the PCs try to intercept any commu-
nications from the devotees’ ship, they will succeed
with a COMTECH roll. They will hear a short exchange.
O U T G O I N G M E S S A G E : “Intact vessel identified.
We are moving to intercept. We will continue the task
to locate the navigation data, the parts and fuel that
you need for your fleet, but if the Angels are willing,
we will bring you this vessel. Your odyssey across the
Isolation’s Gap to the Outer Rim can start immediately,
and the rest can follow soon after. Before long, the
whole Middle Heavens will be open to you.”
I N C O M I N G : “Acceptance. Hasten.”
BRING THEM TO HEEL
To be played late in the campaign, but before the
finale In the Shadow Of Perfection. The 3WE, angry at
the growing support for the NAPRO, seizes all sympa-
thizers in a coordinated operation. The commander of
the UNCSS Solovetsky Island receives a message from
Colonel Buston that all NAPRO sympathizers are to
be arrested immediately (this includes Lakota Monroe
and PC sympathizers), a command that has tacit
support from the UNISC in a desperate attempt to
keep the Great Mother Mission together. It’s up to the
commander and the PCs how this confrontation plays
out on Solovetsky Island. ■
169G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
N O N - P L A Y E R
C H A R A C T E R S
MINOR NPC STATS
170
NPCSTRAGLWITEMPHEALTHSKILLSTALENTSGEAR
Governor
Kholwa Abantu23452Observation 3,
Manipulation 3,
Command 2InfluenceDatapad, personal
communicator
UNCSS Ìyánlá Senior
Flight Officer, Captain
Tadesse Kondwani35433Observation 2,
Comtech 2,
Command 3,
Piloting 3Like The
Back of
Your HandDress flight suit
W-Y Director
Kamal Vartouhi34443Observation 2,
Command 1,
Manipulation 3,
Ranged Combat 1CunningW-Y APE suit
UA Director
­Valentina Berezi43354Observation 2,
Stamina 2,
Mobility 1,
Manipulation3Personal
SafetyNotebook and solid
gold pen
3WE Colonel
David Buston44334Close Combat 2,
Ranged Combat 3,
Command 3BanterCovert body armor
(AP2), MP-4043
Grach pistol
3WE Administrator
Lynna Young-Hee32543Observation 3,
Comtech 2StoicReady supply of
Never­sleep and
Naproleve
ICC Superintendent
Jim Busby52445Close Combat 3,
Stamina 3,
Observation 2,
Command 1,
Manipulation 3Nerves
of SteelSeegson P-Dat, com-
puter terminal
TR&R Alecto Throop34353Heavy Machinery 2,
Piloting 2,
Mobility 3,
Ranged Combat 2The
Right PathEco All-World survival
suit, M41A Pulse Rifle,
M314 Motion Tracker
Hyperdyne
Corp Director
Pereira Abrams43444Heavy Machinery 1,
Command 1,
Manipulation 2AuthorityStylish overalls, tools
Omni-Tech
CEO Kim Bak34443Observation 1,
Survival 2,
Command 3Talk Their
LanguageFlowing gowns
with protective suit
(Armor 2), hand fan
Kelland Prospector
General Lee Taylor35433Observation 3,
Piloting 2,
Heavy Machinery 2,
Mobility 2ProspectingPersonal communica-
tor, binoculars
UNISC Peacekeepers44224Close Combat 2,
Ranged Combat 2,
Stamina 1,
Mobility 3,
Survival 3NoneM3 Personnel Armor,
Weyland Storm Rifle,
E4 Electroshock
Pistol, flashlight, per-
sonal medkit, 4 gre-
nades, combat knife9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
NPCSTRAGLWITEMPHEALTHSKILLSTALENTSGEAR
Throop
Rescue Experts44344Heavy Machinery 3,
Mobility 2,
Survival 2,
Comtech 2,
Medical Aid 3Spaceship
Mechanic,
Field SurgeonMk. 50 Compression
Suit, E4 Electroshock
Pistol, Starshell
flare pistol, per-
sonal medkit
ICC Inspectors33533Observation 3,
Comtech 2,
Command 2,
Manipulation 2WatchfulSeegson P-Dat,
flashlight, “Do Not
Cross” hazard tape,
Seegson System
Diagnostic Device
Corporate &
Government Reps23542Command 1,
Manipulation 1,
Observation 1Personal
SafetyPenlight, bribe
money ($5,000),
Personal Data
Transmitter, voice
recorder
Gorham's
Marauders43434Piloting 3,
Mobility 2,
Ranged Combat 2,
Observation 3,
Survival 1EVA
Specialist,
Second WindBiohazard suits, E-7
Shockgun with KIP
Baton Rounds, E-4
Pistol, Electroshock
grenades
Children
of the Two
Divines Devotee43254Close Combat 2,
Manipulation 2,
Observation 2,
Ranged Combat 2,
Mobility 2,
Piloting 1HotheadMk35 Compression
Suit, Rexim EVA
Pistol, Watatsumi
Bolt Gun, club, knife,
two doses of X-Stims
Cooperative
Soldiers44334Close Combat 2,
Stamina 2,
Ranged Combat 2,
Mobility 1OverkillKevlar vest, QSZ-203
Semi-Automatic
Pistol, AK-4047,
bandolier of six gre-
nades, combat knife
UPP Cosmos
Exploration Corps54335Piloting 2,
Mobility 3,
Close Combat 2,
Ranged Combat 3,
Stamina 2Zero-G
TrainingCCC4 Compression
Suit or 6B90 Combat
Armor, AK-4047
Rifle, MP-4043
Grach pistol
UPP Davydovich
Combat Android77337Close Combat 3,
Mobility 2,
Manipulation 3,
Observation 3,
Ranged Combat 3Killer6B90 Combat
Armor, AK-4047,
combat knife
May Colony
Insurrectionists33453Close Combat 2,
Ranged Combat 1,
Observation 3,
Mobility 3NoneVarious
Royal Marines44324Close Combat 2,
Ranged Combat 2,
Mobility 2,
Stamina 2Rapid FireKevlar armor, M41
Pulse Rifle, four
grenades
Weylander Guards44334Close Combat 2,
Ranged Combat 2,
Mobility,
1 Stamina 3NoneLeather armor
(Armor 1),
spear, cudgel
171G A M EM O T H E R
S E C T I O N
NPCSTRAGLWITEMPHEALTHSKILLSTALENTSGEAR
Feral Raiders54117Close Combat 3,
Ranged Combat 1,
Mobility 4,
Observation 4ToughArmor scraps (Armor
2), spear, large knife
Cliff-Dweller
Workers33333Stamina 2,
Observation 1NoneSpear, worn knife
Walter Series
Synthetic Platinum
Edition—Gaius64646Heavy Machinery 3,
Close Combat 3,
Comtech 3,
Observation 3,
Manipulation 3,
Piloting 1BreakthroughP-DAT
SELF-REPAIR: If they suffer a System Shutdown, a Walter Series android can self-repair and
reverse that shutdown. This takes one Turn. If they suffer a System Shutdown a second time,
they are disabled until externally repaired.
Working Joes
7
2
1
1
7
Heavy Machinery 3,
Comtech 3
Pack Mule
Maintenance jack,
cutting torch
CODEPENDENT OPERATION: Working Joes can only perform limited pre-programmed actions
unless synced to a MU/TH/UR 9000 computer, which can temporarily add its own skills to a
Working Joe.
ANDROID FLAW—SUBSTANDARD COMPONENTS: Any critical injury always triggers two rolls
instead of one, apply both results.
P L A Y E R
PLAYER HANDOUT—MISSION CONTRACT
172
H A N D O U T S9 .
T H E
L O S T
W O R L D S
P L AY E R H A N D O U T— CO LO N Y S TAT U S R E P O R T S
COLONYAVAILABLE INFORMATION, CIRCA 2100
KOI-323.08Platte Outpost, a small 3WE science outpost analyzing the abundant micro-fauna on
a steamy, volcanic planet. Population: 50
KOI-610.01May Outpost, a 3WE Royal Marine outpost. Population: 900,000
KOI-723.06Kareti Colony, science outpost. Population: 126
KOI-784.01Dylan Colony, a mining colony. Population 90,000
KOI-817.01Brahms Outpost, a mining colony on a frozen world. Population: unknown
KOI-947.01Pelican Colony, huge agricultural colony, known as “the breadbasket of the fron-
tier.” Population: 6.5 million
KOI-1361.01
Blue Jay Colony, a society living in the arid deserts and ravines. Needs to import
water to survive. Population: unknown
KOI-1404.01Archimedes Colony, a bustling colony, and space port. Population: 20,000
KOI-1430.03Ute Colony, with significant mining and heavy industry. The atmosphere is dusty
and prone to storms. Population: 75,000
KOI-1686.01
Nightingale Colony, a lucrative and prosperous mining community on a world of
super canyons. Population: unknown
KOI-1739.01July Colony, mining on a rough and rocky planet. Population: 150,000
KOI-1938.01Sanchez Colony, mining colony with some agriculture, great river plains. Popula-
tion: 6 million
KOI-2020.01
January Outpost, a water world where the society lived on floating settlements, to
study the abundant xenobiology of the planet. Population: 1.2 million
KOI-2290.01Capelli Colony, sprawling urban administrative center. Population 1.6 million
KOI-2418.01Curzic Outpost, a Chinese Asian National Congress (CANC) planet. Heavy industry.
Population: unknown, but probably 1 million+
KOI-2469.01
October Colony, a coastal society of aqua-agriculture and mining. Popula-
tion: 230,000
KOI-2650.01Gorham Colony, a wind-swept mining outpost. Population: 1 million
KOI-2770.01Izvinite Colony, an expanding community built on heavy industry and mining, sur-
viving a harsh climate that generates silicate hurricanes. Population 780,000
173G A M E
174
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
E X P E D I T I O N S
“Come my friends, ‘tis not too late to seek a newer world […]
for my purpose holds to sail beyond the sunset.”
— U LY S S E S
175P L A Y E R
S E C T I O N
1 . H O M E
S W E E T H O M E
“An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind.”
— M A H AT M A G A N D H I
The PCs head to Gorham Colony, KOI-2650.01, a
mining outpost on a deserted, dusty, wind-swept
planet. They find only one occupied settlement,
a ragged mining facility with just eight survivors.
Their arrival re-ignites a feud between the colonists,
erupting into violence as a huge sandstorm hits,
shattering the base and leaving them defenseless
against the deadly creatures of this world. They
must deal with the feud and repair the facility—or
find another way to survive—before these terrors of
nature tear them all apart.
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
Heading towards your destination, you receive a video
call from Gaius aboard UNCSS Ìyánlá.
“Gorham Colony KOI-2650.01 is a mining colony.
Established 2067. Terraformed. Our records show the
planet is rich in pentlandite, iron ore and some trace
elements. The population in 2100 was noted as one
million. Founded by J.V. Gorham. Site of the deepest
drilling, apparently, at 23 kilometers. Was introducing
non-indigenous life to help with mining operations.
Earth standard gravity, orbits a red giant star with a
diurnal length of 36 hours. Arid with high winds and
frequent sand storms.
That’s all I have for you. As you know, our mission is
first and foremost exploratory and humanitarian—see
what’s there and if anyone needs immediate assistance—
then establish contact with any political authority and
negotiate their return to the United Nations’ fold. If
there’s no one there, assess the planet for immediate
recolonization and don’t forget to recover the colony’s
long data disc so we can analyze their history. You will
need to file a Colony Potential Report—I’m expecting
your assessments of future mining potential, scientific
research opportunities, any local life that’s worth inves-
tigating, and of course, any ad hoc opportunities for
scientific, commercial or financial benefit.
You will report your findings back to me. Hail and
farewell!”
176
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
The surviving colonists at the Tontas Ravine mining
facility, the Morino and Parks families, are old
enemies, who put aside their vendetta and worked
together out of necessity, to survive. After the Isola-
tion they continued to mine pentlandite—a common
ore they traded with other colonies.
Over the years that trade dried up, leaving them
struggling to survive. Twenty years ago tensions
flared, as did the feud. José Morino, the elder
brother to Emilia, Diego and Danny, was shot dead
by Patrick Parks. Patrick had sought revenge for the
loss of his family at José’s hands some years prior.
Realizing that feeding the vendetta would see
them all dead, those left behind called a truce and
tried to work together. Despite their differences,
they have only survived thanks to this collaboration.
Over the years they have collected a fortune in
precious stones, but the gems have no value unless
they can reconnect with civilization.
However, long-standing resentments and
hatreds are always just under the surface, and both
Diego Morino and Patrick Parks still harbor ice-cold
dreams of vengeance.
The last people to visit Tontas Ravine before
the PCs were Gorham’s Marauders, one year ago
(page 144). They found the NPCs’ ship, HMCSS
Janku, and wiped the navigation data from its
memory banks.
Then the PCs arrive. Suddenly both the Morinos
and Parks see a new future of luxury after so much
misery. But there’s no way they are going to share it
with their oldest enemies, who necessity made allies
but now are just getting in the way. Under the cover
of a terrible sandstorm Danny Morino is murdered,
and the feud is let loose once again.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
GORHAM COLONY’S
LONG DATA DISC
When the colony started to collapse the grand-
mother of the Morino siblings, Shaniah Morino,
collected the colony’s long data disc for posterity.
It now sits gathering dust in the basement vault at
Tontas Ravine. If the PCs ask the NPCs about it they
will be told where it is, and can be escorted there
to retrieve it, witnessing the way to access the vault
and the other treasures it contains.
CLUES TO
T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E
The PCs can find the first campaign clue (page
162) during this expedition, by learning from
the NPCs that another vessel had been here a year
before, its crew of raiders leaving them and the mine
alone and only boarding the NPCs’ old Bison ship,
the HMCSS Janku, where they wiped the navigation
data from its memory banks. Checking the HMCSS
Janku’s log will corroborate the clue.
SOLAR SYSTEM
& COLONY RECORD
KOI-2650 System and KOI-2650.01
KOI-2650.01
KOI-2650.01 is an arid Earth-like planet orbiting a red
giant that gives a pale rusty-orange tinge to every-
thing. Daily temperatures only reach 10 °C, and not
quite freezing at night. It has a long diurnal cycle of
36 hours, with little axial tilt so day and night are both
18 hours long (three Shifts). The storms swirl contami-
nated dust into the air—anyone breathing it will suffer
the effects of suffocation every Turn, or after any
strenuous activity (page 110 of the core rulebook).
The planetary map gives you all the details you
need for KOI-2650.01 should your PCs want to
further explore or even colonize it, using the rules
in the Appendix: Building Your Own Better World
(page 275).
GORHAM COLONY
SURVEYED PLANET POSITION
PARENT STAR
1
Single
Red Giant
GAS GIANTS
ROCKY
PLANETSICE PLANETS
35
ATMOSPHERE
5
PLANET SIZE
ASTEROID
BELTSRADIATION
2NONE
HYDRO-
SPHEREDAY LENGTHAXIAL TILT
11,500 KMThinArid36 HoursNone
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL
FEATUREORBITAL
PERIODPLANETARY
PERSONALITY
1GTemperateWorld
spanning
super
canyon434 daysCantan-
kerous
KOI-2650.01
THERMAL SPRINGS
AND STEAMVENTS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
BIZARRELY ERODED
WIND CUT BADLANDS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
PLAINS OF CAVE SYSTEMS
AND SINKHOLES
+1
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+0
ROCKY PLAINS INFESTED WITH
INSECT-LIKE CREATURES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
TONTAS RAVINE MINING FACILITY
STEEP-SIDED RIVER GORGES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
−2
SUPER CANYON
HUGE IMPACT CRATERS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
DEEP AND WIDE
RIFT VALLEYS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+0
1 77G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
KICKING OFF THE ACTION
The action starts with the PCs aboard their SEV, scan-
ning the planet. In between the frequent storms, they
can make out the remains of isolated settlements
across the planet’s harsh, red-tinged landscape. All
of them look industrial and mechanized, pipes and
smokestacks, tanks and containers, all covered in dust.
None of them look anything other than deserted and
derelict.
If the PCs issue a radio call, they will get no reply—
the Morino and Parks families will hear them but have
learned to be cautious. They will wait at the facility to
see what the PCs do. However, they cannot hide the
heat signature and electrostatic noise Tontas Ravine
gives out.
The PCs can pinpoint the location, in the middle of
a vast rocky plain, cracked like a broken pane of glass
with ravines, chasms and canyons. A fly-over reveals
the facility, tucked neatly at the bottom of a wide
ravine. It has power, and on the plain above there’s
the glint of solar panels and the whirring of windmills.
About 500 meters away along the ravine rests the
derelict remains of an old Bison-class ship next to
what looks like a crude access ramp to the ravine floor,
big enough for a Daihotai 8×8.
It is impossible to land inside the ravine, and land-
ing near it is dangerous due to the uneven and broken
ground (−3 modification to PILOTING ). Landing next to
the Bison is easy enough, but still requires a PILOTING
roll. A failed roll means the ship has landed heavily,
taking D3 points of damage.
S H O R E PA R T Y : Tan Blatchman, the ICC Inspector
aboard the Solovetsky Island (page 159) demands
to come planet-side with the PCs, to see firsthand how
they go about applying ICC protocols in the field. He
will not cope with danger well and will need protect-
ing. Possibly an opportunity for the PCs to get rid of
their troublesome inspector, if they wish to do so.
T H E C A L M B E F O R E T H E S T O R M : When the
PCs arrive at the mine, they see six people waiting
to welcome them: Emilia, Diego and Danny Morino,
and Morgan, Violet and Benny Parks. Maya Morino
and Patrick Parks have taken their WY-37B Transport
Sled (page 146 of the core rulebook) to make a food
gathering run 100km to the north. They are all armed,
except Benny, but cautiously wary rather than threat-
ening. Emilia leads the conversation, saying they don’t
see a lot of folks around these parts, these days. She
178
will demand to know who the PCs are, where they are
from and what they are doing here.
It’s up to the PCs how they convince them they are
there to help, but when they explain they are a rescue
mission from Earth there will be a moment of dawning
realization on the NPCs’ faces—more than relief or
excitement, as they all realize their lives are about
to change dramatically, and they don’t need—don’t
want—the other family anymore. The PCs can notice
this dawning realization with a successful OBSERVA-
TION roll, but if questioned the NPCs will simply say
they are relieved that help has arrived.
This is an opportunity for the PCs to question the
Morinos and Parks, explore the facility and learn about
the history of Tontas Ravine. They should also learn
about the Gorham’s Marauders’ raid of the previous
year, and the NPCs can bring up their agendas with
the PCs, and see how they react.
T H E S T O R M : After the PCs’ arrival, and at a point
to best build the tension, a huge dust storm brews up
and brews up fast. The following happens:
They receive a call from their pilot “Dudge” (page
157) aboard UNCSS Solovetsky Island. He reports
that a storm is incoming, that it’s close and it’s big.
The PCs are too far away for recovery before it hits, so
Dudge is taking the ship into orbit to avoid damage.
Emilia Morino tells the PCs they can weather the
storm in their storm shelter, for staying outside could
be fatal. Any PC who insists on staying outside the
storm shelter suffers an eight Base Dice, Damage 2
attack from the dust, winds and falling debris each
Turn until the storm blows itself out one Shift later.
The other NPCs disappear to secure the facility as
best they can before the storm hits.
Benny Parks takes the opportunity to confront
Danny Morino about the affair with his mother. They
scuffle outside Danny’s pod, and Benny hits Danny
with a wrench. In a panic Benny drops the bloody
wrench and leaves Danny, unconscious, where he fell,
where the storm will kill him, but not before stealing
Danny’s keycard to the vault and hiding it inside his
boot. He dashes to the storm shelter, in a sweat.
As the storm hits and Danny doesn’t appear at the
shelter, Violet becomes distraught. If the PCs don’t
intervene, Benny holds her back while Morgan Parks
seals the shelter hatch. Violet punches Morgan, accus-
ing him of leaving Danny to die, and the PCs will learn
of the affair.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
179G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
T H E E S C A P E : The storm lasts one Shift and
destroys the water tanks, flooding the basement and
the access tunnel to the storm shelter, from which
the PCs must escape. The shelter’s roof hatch opens
upwards. It’s stuck by the weight of water above it
and needs a firm push to force it open. When opened,
water will immediately gush into the shelter (+1
STRESS LEVEL to all), but if they let go of the hatch the
weight of water will close it, trapping them but stop-
ping the flood. Once the hatch is fully open it will take
the water two Rounds to completely fill the shelter.
When fully submerged, the PCs will need to make
drowning tests each round (page 110 of the core
rulebook) until they escape. They may plan their
escape before they open the hatch, in which case they
act in whatever order they have agreed. Otherwise,
draw initiative to see who goes first. Each PC needs to
make a successful MOBILITY roll to escape, but if they
fail, they are stuck for the Round and are blocking
the access tunnel. Those behind are stuck unless they
make a CLOSE COMBAT roll to drag the blocking char-
acter back down and out of the way.
T H E A F T E R M AT H : The storm has done terri-
ble damage:
T The base is dark and silent, with no power—only
gloomy red sunlight seeps in.
T The water tanks collapsed, smashing the Parks’
T
T
T
T
T
T
house and leaving a gaping hole running from roof
to foundations.
The giant door to the Harvester kennel is battered
and standing wide open, the Harvester nowhere to
be seen.
The vehicle bay has collapsed, and the tractor
is lying on its side badly damaged, at least one
rugged tire shredded and useless. Any vehicle the
PCs brought with them is equally smashed.
The comms aerial, that should be standing atop the
comms array on the southern cliff, hangs over the
precipice, held by a tangle of cables.
There is no way to contact the SEV now, with the
base comms out of action and the storm still raging
in the upper atmosphere, effectively jamming the
PCs’ own comms.
The windmills are bent and broken—some missing
entirely—but many still stand and look like they
might be operable.
Violet Parks is desperate to find Danny Morino, in
the hope that he is safe.
TO NTAS RAVIN E
N
HARVESTER
KENNEL
STORE
MINI-MILL
FIELD
D P
MINING
STORAGE
YL
ON
Y LO
GREEN
HOUSES
THE PARKS
HOUSE
FI
WATER
TANKS
LD P
EL
FIE
LIFT
TOWER
DANNY’S
POD
FIELD
NODE
CONTROL
BLOCK
FI
LANDING
PAD
EL
D
FIELD
NODE
PY
COMMS
ARRAY
N
LO
THE MORINO
HOUSE
LIFT
TOWER
FI
D
EL
PY
N
LO
SOLAR
FARM
TO THE
MINES
18 0
ORE
PROCESSING
WARE
HOUSE
VEHICLE
BAY
5×5 METERS1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
EMILIA M O RIN O
Responsible, considerate, and caring, the 43-year-
old Emilia still misses her brother, José, killed nearly
twenty years ago by Patrick Parks. She is convinced the
Parks will make some kind of aggressive move against
her family, and try to take the stash of gems, and
the claim, for themselves. She fears the unnecessary
suffering this will cause when everyone can be rich as
Croesus. Emilia will try to keep her brother, Diego, calm,
but wants the PCs to take charge and keep the peace.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Command 3, Comtech 1, Heavy Machinery 2,
Manipulation 2, Mobility 1, Piloting 1, Ranged
Combat 1
GEAR: Protective clothing (Armor Rating 2), 37A2
shotgun, vault keycard, hologram of José Morino
DAN NY M O RIN O
DIEGO M O RIN O
Selfish and lazy, the 29-year-old Danny is not
liked by his older siblings, and over the years they
have given up trying to get him to be responsible.
He has read all the histories on life before the
Isolation and wants that for himself—he doesn’t
care who he tramples to get it. His love affair with
Violet Parks was a bad mistake. He immediately
sees that the PCs’ arrival will set-off the bloody
feud once again and wants to stay out of the
crossfire. He will ask the PCs for a job.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Comtech 2, Heavy Machinery 1,
Manipulation 2, Ranged Combat 2
TALENTS: Husbandry (page 49).
GEAR: Protective clothing (Armor Rating 2), an
old Weyland Corporation chit for a return flight
to Earth, 37A2 shotgun
Quiet, angry, and vengeful, Diego, 39, cannot
shake the vision of his older brother, José, dying
before him, having been shot by Patrick Parks. He
has never forgiven the Parks and now it’s time for
them to pay for what they have done. With murder
in his heart, Diego will try to cut a deal with the
PCs for their help against the Parks but is deter-
mined to kill Benny so Patrick Parks will suffer.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Close Combat 1, Comtech 1,
Manipulation 1, Medical Aid 3, Mobility 1,
Ranged Combat 2
TALENTS: Hothead
GEAR: His father’s old .357 Magnum (one
reload), medical kit, protective clothing
(Armor Rating 2)
181G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
M O RGAN PAR KS
Outwardly calm and content, but seething inside,
49-year-old Morgan knows his wife, Violet, is having
an affair with Danny Morino. Knowing that his father
Patrick will want revenge on the Morinos, he will argue
to have his father recalled as soon as the storm passes,
and they repair the communications equipment. He
will tell the PCs they cannot trust the Morinos’ word,
and the PCs should work with the Parks family alone,
hinting at a nice cut for them if they comply.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 5, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Comtech 2, Heavy Machinery 1, Mobility 1,
Observation 3, Piloting 1, Ranged Combat 1
TALENTS: Watchful
GEAR: Protective clothing (Armor Rating 2), M4A3
pistol, combat knife, vault keycard
VIO LET PAR KS
B EN NY PAR KS
No-nonsense, manipulative, and argumentative,
42-year-old Violet works as a roughneck and Har-
vester handler. Married to Morgan, she has been
having an illicit affair with Danny Morino for months,
right under her husband’s nose. She’s in love with
Danny and wants to take their share of the fortune
and escape this place. She needs the vault keycard
Morgan has and won’t let him stand in her way. She
will try to gain the PCs’ sympathies by making up
lies about Morgan’s abusive treatment of her.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 4, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Heavy Machinery 2,
Mobility 1, Manipulation 3, Stamina 3
TALENTS: Husbandry (see page 49)
GEAR: Protective clothing (Armor Rating 2),
heavy wrench
18 2
Kind, naive and easily agitated, Benny, 18, has a
sunny disposition despite the constant bickering
between the families. He just wants everyone
to get along and for the PCs to make everyone
friends again. He’s not clever and isn’t trusted
with any responsibility. He hates that Danny
Morino and his mother are having an affair and
decides to have it out with him—this turns into a
violent argument just as the storm hits that leads
to Danny’s death.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 2, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Comtech 3, Mobility 1,
Stamina 1
GEAR: Protective clothing (Armor Rating 2),
Danny Morino’s vault keycard1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
T O N TA S R AV I N E
The ravine walls are 40 meters high and sheer. They
cannot be climbed (although an enterprising player
with a Harpoon Grappling Gun can give that a try, with
a successful RANGED COMBAT roll to shoot the grap-
pler, and a MOBILITY roll to climb up).S O L A R FA R M : The solar panels often get clogged
with dust which stops them working. It takes one
person a full Shift to clean them all off, but once
complete, the power will come back online, as long as
there’s sunshine.
H M C S S J A N K U : The ship, 500 meters east along
the ravine, is not space worthy and has been left to
gather dust. Leggy-snakes (page 189) have nested
in it, but they won’t attack the PCs unless you feel it
adds to the scene. They skitter and slither and make
a noise that should be used to up the tension. There
is just enough power left to fire up the computers, so
the PCs can download the logs and see what Gorham’s
Marauders did to the ship (the first clue of the cam-
paign, see page 162).F I E L D N O D E S : The field nodes transfer power from
the solar panels and mini-mills to the rest of the base,
as well as power the pylons to create the electric field
that repels the insect swarms. If a field node is broken,
it will take a COMTECH roll and a Turn of work to fix.
O R E P R O C E S S I N G P L A N T : Ore is dropped into
a huge hopper that produces nuggets of pure pentlan-
dite, then automatically packaged and stored in the
warehouse. If the machine is on and someone falls into
the hopper they are killed.
V E H I C L E B AY : There is room in the bay for the
facility’s Daihotai 8×8.
M I N I N G S T O R A G E : This huge storage bay con-
tains twenty seismic charges (Blast Power 10), four
power packs (Power Supply 2 each) and five portable
air canisters (Air Supply 3 each). Additionally, it
will have anything that the players can reasonably
convince you would be in the warehouse of a frontier
mining facility.
T H E H A R V E S T E R K E N N E L : Built to contain the
Harvester, this structure is of the toughest materials
available but will be difficult to repair (HEAVY MACHIN-
ERY at −3 and a Shift of work). The adjacent storage
shed has five electro-prod “zappers,” and three power
packs with Power Supply 3 each. It also contains the
remote switch (Power Supply 1) that detonates the
electric charge attached to the Harvester’s harness
to subdue it. To activate the switch requires a Power
Supply roll, a successful COMTECH test, and to be
within MEDIUM range of the beast. The attempt can
be repeated if failed. If successful, the Harvester
will be subdued and not act for a Turn unless it suf-
fers damage.
F I E L D P Y L O N S : The pylons create a 20-meter-
high flickering electric field that encircles the top of
the ravine and defends against the native insects. If
any of the pylons are broken, the field cannot work.
A repair takes a HEAVY MACHINERY roll to realign
the pylon (taking one Turn), then a COMTECH roll to
re-connect it with the field (another Turn of work).
Once activated, anyone touching the field will take
a twelve Base Dice attack, Damage 1. However, if the
target takes no damage whatsoever, the field has
flickered, and they have passed safely through (a
desperate PC may try this if the only other option is
being eaten alive by the Swarm).
C O M M S A R R AY : This needs to be online for any
communications with the SEV or the Cargo Lifter. If
the aerial is broken, it needs two people to manhandle
it back into place, with a successful STAMINA roll and a
HEAVY MACHINERY roll to repair it, a job that will take
a Shift to complete.
L I F T T O W E R S : The towers are made of thin scaf-
folding, with an elevator that works when the base has
power and a rickety set of steps.
M I N I - M I L L F I E L D : Used to generate power but
susceptible to storm damage.
T H E M I N E : The tunnel runs for 100 meters before
it opens into a circular strip mine with concentric
circles going deeper and deeper. This chamber has a
self-powered generator and floodlights but there’s no
way out other than through the ravine.
183G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE CONTROL BLOCK
This is the main area of the facility where everyone has
full access. It’s spartan and functional.for any of them. There are also two Space Sub ASSO-
400 Harpoon Grappling Guns.
M E D I C A L B AY : It has an AutoDoc (+2 to MEDICALC O N F E R E N C E R O O M : A large table dominates
the room, with a window looking west, across Danny
Morino’s pod and the cliff.
AID ), two doses of leggy-snake anti-venom, five per-
sonal medkits, and twenty doses of Neversleep.
R E A DY R O O M : Benches line the wall and lockers
stand in the middle. There are several heavy weather
jackets here.
T H E C O N T R O L D E C K : The Control Deck has
panoramic windows that give the best view eastwards
along the facility and down the ravine. There are four
control desks that can remotely control all the key
systems. A ladder leads to the roof hatch.
S T O R E S : There are two protective suits here (Armor
Rating 2) and five respirator units, but no Air Supply
TO NTAS RAVIN E
GROUND
0
T H E
C O N T R O L
B L O C K
FLOOR
S
WC
T
O
R
MEDICAL
READY
ROOM
STORES
E
S
S
TO THE
BASEMENT
READY
ROOM
T
O
R
E
S
W
C
KITCHEN
GYM
H
LOUNGE
S
O
U
M
E
T
H
E
O
N
T
E
STORES
T
S
T
A
N
S
E
M
E
OMTEH
E
ST
K
E
B
A
S
R
O
B
T
A
U
LIVING
ROOM
H
P
O
H
H
WORK-
SHOP
E
R
E
I
DINING
N
T
O
LOUNGE
1×1 METERS
D A N N Y
M O R I N O ’ S P O D
AIRLOCKWORKSHOP
STAIRCASEMEDLAB
LADDER
18 41 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TO NTAS RAVIN E
UPPER
+1
T H E
C O N T R O L
B L O C K
FLOOR
CONTROL DECK
BED 4
KITCHEN
& DINNER
BED 3
CONFERENCE
ROOM
BED 2
LOUNGE
BED 1
COMMON
ROOM
BED 3
O
N
I
E
R
M
O
E
T
S
LOUNGE
H
E
K
BED 2
H
S
R
U
A
SHOWERS
U
P
O
O
H
BED 1
E
H
READY
ROOM
S
T
READY
ROOM
SHOWERS
BED
1×1 METERS
D A N N Y
M O R I N O ’ S P O D
AIRLOCKWORKSHOP
STAIRCASEMAINFRAME
LADDER
T H E PA R K S H O U S E
Decorated in an old frontier style this place is homely
and comfortable.the night. There’s a cutting torch here with Power
Supply 2.
T H E R E A DY R O O M : Dirty and a mess, this room
has one protective suit (Armor Rating 2), three respi-
rator units and two portable air canisters (Air Supply
2 each).C O M M O N R O O M : The main feature here is Patrick
Park’s moonshine still, and four bottles of moonshine,
if anyone wants to try drinking it. If a PC drinks too
much they gain a +1 modification to Strength based
skills, and −1 modification to all others. The effect lasts
a Shift.
K I T C H E N , L O U N G E & D I N I N G R O O M : Open
plan, it’s cozy.
B E D R O O M S : Basic bedrooms, functional but warm.
W O R K S H O P : A small bench sits to the side of
the room, where the Parks tinker with stuff late into
185G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
TO NTAS RAVIN E
BASEMENT
−1
STORM
SHELTER
S
T
LAUNDRY
O
WORKSHOP
R
E
S
T
O
R
E
D
L
E M
I E
F ST
C
I SY
R
T OL
EC R
L T
E ON
C
S
T
O
R
E
M
O TO
R
I
N
O
S
R
K
S
REACTOR
M
G
N
I
AT
T
E
S
A
O
P
T
1×1 METERS
Y
VAULT
H
S
FUEL RODS
R
S
E
Y
W
S
O
T
P
E
M
S
E
WATER
PROCESSING
AIRLOCKWORKSHOP
STAIRCASERADIOACTIVE
AREA
LADDER
THE MORINO HOUSEDANNY MORINO’S POD
Nicely appointed and elegantly styled.A temporary habitation pod, Danny decided
to live here rather than share a house with his
estranged siblings. After the storm has blown
through, Danny Morino’s dead body lies outside
the ground floor door to the pod (see the event
Poor Danny).
S T O R E S : There are three well maintained IRC
Mk.50 Compression Suits here (Armor Rating
2, Air Supply 5, −1 MOBILITY ) and a spare power
pack (Power Supply 2).
L O U N G E : Big and cozy.
K I T C H E N D I N E R : Nicely set-up with a good
supply of canned food and high-quality cooking
implements, including hefty carving knives.
U P S TA I R S L O U N G E : A lovely room where the
Morinos chill after a long day.
18 6
S T O R E S : A well-stocked storeroom, with plenty
of food and water, two portable air canisters (Air
Supply 4 each) and two power packs (Power
Supply 1 each).
L I V I N G R O O M , LO U N G E & B E D R O O M :
A total mess but Danny likes it that way.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
BASEMENT
After the storm has passed through the basement is
flooded to a depth of one meter, bringing a −1 modi-
fication to MOBILITY rolls for moving through it. After
the storm, five leggy-snakes, that were nesting under
the water tanks, have been washed into the basement.
An OBSERVATION test will spot the ripples they make
on the surface of the water as they swim about. They
will try to bite anyone who lingers in the water but
won’t leave the water and expose themselves to
potential predators.
M41A Pulse Rifle (one reload) and two M4A3 Pistols
(two reloads).
The long data disc for Gorham Colony is here. Spend-
ing a Turn to analyze the records reveals the following:
The population in 2100 was 120,000, with an
export/import economy reliant upon regular trad-
ing for food and other basic supplies.
Trade collapsed after 2100. Many colonists left
but those that remained—25,000 in 2150—could
survive.
In the 2150s, a decade of extreme storms and
the unchecked spread of insect swarms led to
much loss of life, and many more colonists died or
departed.
From about 2160, trading vessels from other colo-
nies stopped coming, and only a few isolated settle-
ments survived. The population was 350.
T
T
S T O R M S H E LT E R : It’s basic—benches against
corrugated walls, a plastic table that runs down the
middle, illuminated by one ceiling panel. A storage
cupboard has rations and a flashlight with Power
Supply 3. Access is down a ladder from the basement
and through a ceiling hatch that can be sealed shut
with a locking wheel.T
W O R K S H O P & L A U N D R Y : There are enough
tools and parts here to fashion other types of equip-
ment, should the players think to do so (such as an
Incendiary Unit or Motion Detector) with a successful
HEAVY MACHINERY roll and a Turn of work.P O W E R S Y S T E M S : Everything from lights, doors,
lifts, and computer systems requires power. Any
battery can be plugged into these systems to give
them the power they need to work, but each time a
Power Supply roll must be made. After the storm has
shattered the base, the players can use a battery to
fire up diagnostic systems here or on the Control Deck
to learn the following:
There’s no technical reason why the solar farm isn’t
delivering power, it must be dust (see Solar Farm).
One third of the mini-mills are still working but
there’s a short circuit at the northern field node
stopping the power reaching the base (see
Field Nodes).
The field pylon to the west of the northern field
node has collapsed, and the electrical field cannot
be activated (see Field Pylons).
E L E C T R I C F I E L D C O N T R O L S : The controls to
the electric insect defense field are found here.
S T O R E S : This is the main storage area of the facility,
with four portable air canisters (Air Supply 5 each)
and four power packs (Power Supply 3), as well as
anything reasonable the players may ask for, at your
discretion.
T H E VA U LT : Access to the vault requires two
keycards to be used simultaneously. There are only
three, one held each by Emilia Morino, Morgan Parks,
and Danny Morino (although after the storm Danny’s
keycard has been stolen by Benny Parks and hidden
in Benny’s boot). The vault door cannot be hacked,
but could, in theory, be blown or cut open (Health
10, Armor Rating 4). The hoard of rare gemstones is
stored here in a suitcase (a heavy item) and is worth a
total of W-Y$100,000, although the Morinos and Parks
think its value is 100 times that (naturally there may
be repercussions should the PCs choose to steal the
stash). The vault also contains the armory, with two
Armat 37A2 Pump Action shotguns (four reloads), one
T
T
T
T
T H E R E A C T O R : This has been turned off for
months due to a minor radiation leak, but it can still
operate. To bring the reactor back online, the PCs
need to devote a Turn of work, install fuel rods with a
HEAVY MACHINERY roll (if this roll is failed, all within
SHORT range take D3 Rads, but may try again), then
make a second HEAVY MACHINERY roll to fire up the
reactor. Once running the power is restored, but the
reactor emits Weak radiation (1 Rad per Shift) that
affects the entire facility.
187G A M E
18 8
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N1 0 .
EVENTS
P O O R D A N N Y : After the storm has passed
Danny is dead, lying outside the ground floor door
to his pod. He will be found by Violet Parks if the
PCs do not look for him. She will be hysterical at
finding her lover dead. He’s been scoured by the
dust and his skin flayed (+1 STRESS LEVEL to all
viewing him). He also has a severe head wound.
A MEDICAL AID roll will identify that the head
blow didn’t kill him, and an OBSERVATION roll will
find the bloodied wrench nearby. If his body is
searched, the PCs will find that his vault keycard
is missing (if the PCs don’t search him Emilia
Morino will do it and announce this news). The PCs
should have the chance to start investigating what
happened.
T H E F E U D E R U P T S : Eventually the feud
erupts into a violent argument between the Parks
and Morinos. The history comes out, leading to a
murderous fight between the families as they each
accuse the other of killing Danny to get the second
vault keycard (unless the PCs intervene). Diego
Morino will try to kill Benny, Violet Parks will try to
kill Morgan, then defend Benny from Diego. Those
left standing after two Rounds will scatter across
the compound to avoid being killed but will hunt
down their enemies as the scenario progresses.
How the PCs react will influence the outcome.
A N O T H E R O N E B I T E S T H E D U S T : At any
time you should feel free to add in the death or
confrontation of any of the NPCs, to heighten the
tension as the story progresses.
C O M I N G F O R T H E P C S : If either of the fami-
lies gets the upper hand in the feud, they start to see
the PCs as a problem, for they will have witnessed
murder. They will try and get the PCs to keep quiet
about the events here, either agreeing to pay them or
by persuasion. If this doesn’t work, they will try to kill
the PCs to keep their secrets safe.
A V E N G E F U L H A R V E S T E R : The Harvester
(page 318 of the core rulebook), still wearing its
harness, is out there somewhere, on the prowl. It’s
angry and resentful. When a character ventures
outside, the Harvester will detect the tremors
caused by their footfalls and track them. It will
attack if it gets the chance but can be distracted
by noise or other vibrations. If things need liven-
ing up, it will attack the main base in an attempt
to get at its tormentors.
E X P E D I T I O N S
THE LEGGY-SNAKES
These indigenous critters resemble a cross between
a cobra and a giant centipede.
SPEED: 1
HEALTH: 1
SKILLS: Close Combat 4, Mobility 10
VENOM: The creature bites with a base Damage
of 1. Its venom acts as a disease of Virulence 6 but
Sickness rolls are made every Turn instead of every
Shift. Using a dose of anti-venom immediately
stops the effect.
N I G H T FA L L : Night will fall at a time best
suited to the drama, and Tontas Ravine will be
plunged into darkness. Until the PCs restore the
power, they will need flashlights (with power) to
see anything, and still suffer a −2 modification to
OBSERVATION .
T H E C A R G O L I F T E R R E T U R N S : This
event should be played towards the end of the
story after the Swarm has been detected (see
Finale), to raise the tension at the worst possible
moment. The Cargo Lifter (a WY-37B Transport
Sled, see page 140 of the core rulebook) appears
and makes a hasty landing. Patrick Parks steps
from the cockpit pod. He has his gun drawn. Maya
Morino has been beaten and is restrained with
cable-ties. Patrick Parks says: “I’m flying us out
of the way of that damned swarm, but you’re not
all welcome. Parks only get aboard, or the little
Morino girl dies here and now!” He says he will
spare Maya’s life if the others comply, but he has
no intention of doing so (the PCs can make an
OBSERVATION roll to detect Patrick’s lie).
T H E F I E L D M A L F U N C T I O N S : The protec-
tive field goes offline. A COMTECH roll made from
the Control Deck or the basement Power Systems
will show them that one of the northerly field
pylons is faulty, preventing the circuit from closing
and the field from working.
THE DEADLY HARVEST
The PCs can try to “wrangle” the Harvester using the
“zappers,” to control it and stop it attacking people
or causing more damage. However, this is very hard
without the Husbandry talent. See page 90 for
more on Harvesters and how to control them.
189G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
PATRICK PAR KS
Bitter and vengeful, the “Old Man of Tontas Ravine”
cannot forget that day when José Morino killed his
wife and left him for dead—he still has a vicious scar
on his face as a constant reminder. His vengeance
will be fulfilled when he takes Tontas Ravine from the
Morinos and sees them dead in the dust. Patrick will
try to cut a deal with the PCs, to overlook the “fate” of
the ­Morinos for a generous personal cut of the Tontas
Ravine fortune.
STRENGTH 2, AGILITY 2, WITS 5, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 2
SKILLS: Close Combat 1, Manipulate 3, Comtech 2,
Heavy Machinery 3, Observation 2, Piloting 1,
Ranged Combat 2
TALENTS: Merciless
GEAR: Protective clothing (Armor Rating 2), 37A2
shotgun, M4A3 pistol (concealed)
FINALE
After the power has been restored to the base, the
weather warning alarm sounds in the Control Deck.
If the PCs study the radar, they see a large shadow
to the east—a huge swarm of “space locusts” (page
316 of the core rulebook) and it’s coming this way
(+1 STRESS LEVEL to all who see this). It’s difficult to
tell how long it might take to arrive, but if it makes a
beeline for them, it could be within the hour.
The swarm will finally arrive. You should time the
arrival for maximum effect, and the PCs should feel it
coming as they desperately work out how to survive.
If the electric field is active, the PCs will see that the
swarm is huge and will eventually overwhelm it. Each
Round, the swarm makes its signature attacks against
THE FIELD COLLAPSES
The flickering petrol-blue lightning field around
the clifftop is keeping you safe. But the swarm is
throwing itself at it, sudden and intense flashes
marking the electrocution of insect after insect,
a relentless, unending onslaught. The tall pylons
shudder under the assault. Then you hear it, a
wailing groan of metal as a pylon shudders. Some-
thing falls away, a maintenance panel maybe, or
19 0
the field. On a roll of 6, the swarm strips a pylon. Read
the sidebar The Field Collapses to your players.
S U R V I V I N G T H E S WA R M : The swarm is a 4
zone Swarm (page 316 of the core rulebook), Speed
4, Health 20, impervious to all attacks other than fire,
explosions, and electricity. Once inside the compound,
it will attack for ten Rounds before moving on, eating
through walls to get to living flesh. This is the end-
game, the final scene, but there are three ways to sur-
vive: hide inside the Harvester kennel (only if it’s been
repaired), hide underwater (if the PCs have enough Air
Supply), or get the hell out on the Cargo Lifter.
some of its shielding. But either way you watch
as the pylon crumbles under the attack. Its lights
flicker and go out. The reassuring blue glow of the
shield begins to stutter, then go dark, setting off
an almost instant domino effect around the entire
field. In that moment, and before your very eyes,
the shield is gone and the Swarm floods into the
compound…1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
MAYA M O RIN O
Serious, focused and direct, 20 year old Maya is a pilot
and driver. She hates the feud even though she lost
her father, José, to it before she knew him. This is her
home, and she wants the mine to succeed. She doesn’t
want to leave after all the hard work they’ve put in and
wants the PCs to help them get back on their feet. She
only cares about her aunt Emilia and the hapless Benny
Parks and doesn’t want either to get hurt. She will use
force to protect them.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 5, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Close Combat 1, Comtech 2, Mobility 2,
Piloting 3, Ranged Combat 1
GEAR: Flight suit (Armor Rating 3), combat knife
EPILOGUE
After the storm there is still a viable planet to re-col-
onize, should the PCs want to recommend that, and
possibly a fortune in gems to deal with. After their
report goes in, the PCs might be quietly approached
by a corporate executive with a proposal that they
should capture the Harvester for use elsewhere, or
specimens of the insect swarm. ■
191G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
METAPUZZLE CLUE #1—DATABASE READ-OUT FROM HMCSS JANKU
HMCSS JANKU SHIP’S LOG
NAVIGATION SYSTEMS—OFFICER ACCESS AUTHORIZED…….
NAVIGATION DATA LAYER ACCESSED
• PRIMARY DATABASE DELETED
• SECONDARY DATABASE DELETED
• FACTORY RESET
• AUXILIARY AND EMERGENCY BEACON DATA DELETED
• NAVIGATION DATA LAYER DELETED
SYSTEM RE-BOOT
• NO NAVIGATIONAL DATA FOUND
• PRIMARY, SECONDARY, AUXILIARY AND EMERGENCY DATA NOT FOUND
• SHIP DRIVE SYSTEMS—ENABLED
• WARNING—FLIGHT OPERATIONS WITHOUT NAVIGATION DATA ARE NOT ADVISED
• COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS ONLINE—SIGNAL O/G “Granddaughter, Granddaughter, this is Uncle
Five reporting in. We found the outpost on Gorham Colony, no resistance. The people
made a dash for their storm cellar the minute they realized we’d spotted them. Only one
functional ship. The job is done, no problems—one less set of navigation data for those
bastards to get their hands on. See you at the rendezvous. Uncle Five out.”
2 . T O G O
O W N D A R K
M Y
W A Y
“We are all like the bright moon, we still have our darker side.”
—KAHLIL GIBRANI
The PCs find a primitive colony that has reverted to
corporate authoritarianism to survive—a group of
cliff-dwellers protecting themselves from those who
turned feral and prowl the jungle floor. The PCs find
simmering class tensions, deadly dangers in the jungle
192
and a group of refugees from the Children of the Two
Divines. The PCs must preserve the colony and protect
the survivors, before Mother Ma’Kayla of the Children
of the Two Divines arrives and demands the return of
her wayward devotees.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
KOI-784.01 is a world of tropical jungles and mesas,
with staggering cavern systems that fan out across
the world. The rich mineral prospects offered by these
caverns were so enticing it was inevitable a colony
would be established.
At its height, Dylan Colony was a thriving commu-
nity of 40,000 people. It struggled with the Isolation,
and organized society finally collapsed 40 years
ago. Many people dispersed into the jungle to fend
for themselves, becoming feral in order to survive.
Others, under the last remaining vestiges of Weyland
Corporation authority, clung to civilized ways from the
safety of towering plateaus, but living in constant fear
of the ferals.
Since then, the cliff-dwellers have developed a
quasi-corporate hereditary dictatorship, under the
descendants of the Weyland Corporation execu-
tives—a board of ten led by three chief executives
presiding over several hundred workers. These Wey-
landers live a life of relative luxury, keeping control
through possession of the few weapons that still work,
but simmering resentment lies just under the surface.
The ferals number in the hundreds and had been
flourishing on the jungle floor, living within the
THE SILENT KILLER
Mingled with the stench of the jungle, the smell of
the phosgene is almost lost, but there is a linger-
ing odor of musty hay that is a clue to its presence.
This can be detected with an OBSERVATION roll,
and then identified as phosgene with a MEDICAL
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
The PCs receive a video call from Gaius aboard
UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
“Dylan Colony, KOI-784,01. Established by Eldridge
Dylan Sanchez in 2059 to take advantage of plan-
et-wide cavern systems that were ideal for mining
operations. Terraforming initially failed but was
successful on a subsequent attempt. In 2100, the
population was 90,000, mostly mining interests
producing gold, titanium, and hematite. The
planet is exceedingly hot and steamy, with daily
still-functioning atmosphere processor, occasionally
raiding the plateaus for fresh meat. But the processor
is slowly killing them.
Some years ago, in an attempt to kill the ferals
without a fight, the Weylanders deliberately tampered
with the atmosphere processor, setting it to release
low levels of phosgene gas. Denser than the air, this
poison has been building-up on the jungle floor, grad-
ually throttling the life from the ferals.
Two months ago, a Heliades-class J ship crashed in
the jungle. Twenty former devotees of the Children of
the Two Divines, fleeing the cult, begged for asylum.
Suspicious of these outsiders, the Weylanders none-
theless gave them sanctuary in a small, tented camp
on a promontory called Judgment Bluff. They were
given basic shelter and food but were not trusted. The
refugees, grateful for a place to live, have been con-
tent with their situation, so far. They are mindful of the
Ovomorph they know is in the hold of their crashed
ship but have no idea what to do with it. What they
don’t know is that Mother Ma’Kayla and the Children
of the Two Divines have not given up their search to
return their rebellious sheep to the flock.
AID roll with a −2 modification. A successful use of
a Pups device (page 93) will identify the gas.
For every Shift spent breathing this poison, a PC
suffers Mild hypoxia (page 91).
temperatures reaching 48 °C. Mountainous terrain,
with ravines and thick jungle, reportedly suffers
from electromagnetic storms and monsoon rains.
Gravity is Earth-like. The day is 20 hours long.
That is all for Dylan Colony. Remember our
mission mandate and your responsibilities. Your
Colony Potential Report needs to cover the poten-
tial for future mining operations, the status of
the atmosphere processor, any scientific research
possibilities, and the usual ad hoc opportunities
that you may uncover.”
193G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
C L U E S T O T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E
The PCs can learn the second campaign clue (page
162) during this expedition, by gaining the trust of
Chikondi Okafor and the refugees from the Children of
the Two Divines and being given the letter to them from
Mother Ma’Kayla or, if they side with the cliff-dwellers
who want to execute them, the PCs can find the letter in
Okafor’s gear. Alternatively, a copy of the letter can be
found in the debris in the hold of the crashed ship.
SOLAR SYSTEM
& COLONY RECORD
KOI-784 System and KOI-784.01
DYLAN COLONY’S
LONG DATA DISC
The long data disc for this colony was saved by the
Weylanders when society collapsed and is kept in
the chief executives’ hut on the Enclave.
DY L A N CO LO N Y
SURVEYED PLANET POSITION
PARENT STAR
1
Binary
Blue Giant and
Red Dwarf
GAS GIANTS
Orbiting the
Blue Giant
ROCKY
PLANETSICE PLANETS
ASTEROID
BELTSRADIATION
01
0NONE
PLANET SIZEATMOSPHEREHYDRO-
SPHEREDAY LENGTHAXIAL TILT
13,500 kmDenseTemper-
ate Wet20 HoursNone
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL
FEATUREORBITAL
PERIODPLANETARY
PERSONALITY
1GHotSimple
lifeforms232 daysBrooding
2
KOI-784.01
KOI-784.01 is hot and humid. Daily temperatures
reach 48 °C and don’t drop much during the night.
Dominated by mountains, ravines, widespread
caverns and thick jungle, it suffers from frequent
lightning storms, intense monsoons and banks of
fast-forming fog. The gravity is Earth-like, and the
day is 20 hours long. Alongside the risk of phosgene
poisoning on the jungle floor, the PCs may suffer
heatstroke (page 91), at your discretion. The col-
onists are acclimatized, and do not suffer from this.
The planetary map gives you all the details you need
for KOI-784.01 should your PCs want to further explore
or even colonize it, using the rules in the Appendix:
Building Your Own Better World (page 275).
KOI-784.01
MOUNTAINS CUT BY
SKY BLUE LAKES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
ROUGH TERRAIN
PERMANENTLY OVERCAST
WITH PERSISTENT RAINS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
−1
JUNGLES WITH CAVE
SYSTEMS AND SINKHOLES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
STEAMY WIDE PLAINS
WITH HAZY SUNSHINE
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+0
+2
DYLAN COLONY
ODDLY COLORED JUNGLES
OF ALIEN VEGETATION
VOLCANIC ISLAND CHAINS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
ANCIENT EARTHQUAKE
CREVASSES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
19 4
+1
+01 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
KICKING OFF THE ACTION
The action starts with the PCs aboard their SEV, in
the air above the colony, scanning the scene.
There is little sign of activity from high orbit,
but the PCs’ flyby of the Dylan Colony site reveals
much. The atmosphere processor is still operating,
but the electrical flashes and the plumes of smoke
say it’s not in the best working order. All around it
lies the colony, overgrown and deserted, although
a few crumbled ruins still stand against nature’s
onslaught.
The jungle spreads in every direction, broken by
imposing rocky plateaus. At least 100 meters high
and very nearly sheer, the jungle hasn’t claimed
these mesas, and most are bare—except for the few
near the deserted colony. Taking a closer look, the
PCs can see that six of the plateaus are connected
by rope bridges. On those six stand rough buildings
and tents, smoke rising from small fires. And then
they see people—lots of people—hurrying from
their shanty shelters to look up into the sky, to
point, to shout. The PCs cannot hear what they are
shouting. It’s impossible to tell if they are terrified,
shouting threats or welcoming greetings.
L A N D I N G : The only easy option to land is within the
overgrown ruins of the old town, a few hundred meters
from the occupied plateaus, requiring a PILOT test with
a −1 modification. There is not enough room to land on
one of the occupied plateaus without blowing away
the entire flimsy settlement, but they could land on an
unoccupied plateau nearby, with a –2 modification to
the PILOT roll. They would then have to climb down, of
course. A failed roll means the ship has landed heavily,
taking D3 damage.
S H O R E PA R T Y : The security officer, Hamidah Amir
(page 158), recommends she accompanies the PCs
planetside, as the primitive society might present a
danger. She will be overprotective and see danger in
every shadow.
T H E A P P R O A C H : If the PCs travel through the
jungle to reach the plateaus, they will be stalked by
two ferals. Enter stealth mode.
F I R S T C O N TA C T : The cliff-dwelling colonists will
suspect the PCs of being either devotees of the Chil-
dren of the Two Divines or pirates on a raid. A group
of ten, including four guards, will warily approach
the PCs, and challenge them to identify themselves
and their purpose. It’s up to the PCs how they go
about gaining the survivors’ trust, but once they
have it, they will be invited to speak with their lead-
ers Vidan, Dzuma, and Yen. They will be taken under
guard to the roundhouse on the Enclave plateau,
escorted up the hidden tunnel and through the set-
tlement. They get a clear view of this place and its
people and the camp of the refugees. As they pass
here, Chikondi Okafor will attract their attention
and shout for help. Once at the roundhouse they are
greeted by the three chief executives, the rest of the
Weylander leaders, and Lespera. Vidan will welcome
them, explain the history of the colony, and ask for
support and supplies to maintain their lifestyle, and
weapons to destroy the ferals. The NPCs will try to
forward their own agendas.
THE JUNGLE
The jungle suffers from the phosgene gas—the closer
to the atmosphere processor the grayer the under-
growth, the more brittle the roots and stems. It is dense
and stifling, and moving through it is hard work. Any
attempt to run requires a successful MOBILITY roll, or
the PC catches on a root and falls prone.
195G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
DYLA N CO LO NY
ATMOSPHERE
PROCESSOR
MINING
FACILITY
CRASHED
SHIP
J U N G L E
R U I N E D
C O L O N Y
THE
CAMP
J U N G L E
1 KM
TH E FERALS
The ferals have lived like vermin for 40 years, follow-
ing their instincts to survive. They can’t remember
when the urge to eat flesh became so overwhelming
that any flesh would do. That so many were seduced
by the same insanity made it more acceptable, and
soon it became the norm. Complete was their fall into
barbarism.
The ferals are wild barbarians, the apparent evil
nemesis in this story, but they are victims of the Iso-
lation too. The PCs can rescue them from their dark
path and get them treatment for their psychoses.
Until then, the ferals will be immediately hostile but
are weakened by the phosgene poisoning. If a feral
is captured, it may be possible to help them. The PCs
will need to make a successful MEDICAL AID roll with a
19 6
−2 modification, and a Turn of psychotherapy, to make
the feral cooperative and sufficiently trusting to allow
the PCs to help them. If not, they are too far gone, and
will need restraining and full hospital treatment to
have any hope of recovery.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 3, EMPATHY 2
HEALTH: 6
SKILLS: Close Combat 4, Ranged Combat 3,
Observation 4, Stamina 3, Mobility 4
TALENT: Tough
GEAR: Armor scraps (Armor Rating 2), spear (Bonus
+1, Damage 2, MEDIUM range), knife, tattered rags1 0 .
FACE TO FACE WITH A FERAL
Beastly and savage, the feral moves with the graceful
intent of a tiger on the hunt, their eyes sharp and
reflexes at the ready. With blood-stained teeth and
cracked nails, scarred bodies, and ripped skin, they
carry their wounds proudly. They wear almost nothing,
torn rags tied in haphazard knots, but always hold their
weapons, their spears and bone knives, in readiness.
In that moment of calm, you see a flicker in their eyes,
of recognition, of humanity? And then they burst into
action, stabbing, swiping, grappling, to snare another
victim to be dragged screaming into the jungle.
E X P E D I T I O N S
W EYLAND ER G UARDS
Workers are pleased to be given guard duty as it’s
better than the working life and want to keep it
that way.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Stamina 1, Command 1,
Mobility 2, Ranged Combat 2
TALENT: Hard Hitter
GEAR: Heavy batons (Bonus +1, Damage 1),
VIDAN SIM ENYA
M4A3 pistol (no reloads), Weyland Corporation
protective overalls (Armor Rating 3)
DZU MA TIBANDI
WEYLANDER CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Old, indulgent, and kind-hearted, Vidan has led the
cliff-dwellers for years and enjoys the privileges
his rank brings. Sympathetic to Okafor and the
refugees, Vidan wants them to be accepted into
the community. The other chief executives, Dzuma
and Yen, disagree. Vidan regrets they could never
make peace with the Ferals, as there must be some
humanity left in them somewhere.
He wants the PCs’ help to make his community
safer. He will also ask if they know of the Children
of the Two Divines, as he wants to convince the
community to welcome the refugees. Whatever
the PCs say, Vidan will see the refugees as victims
needing his help.Impatient, ambitious and bloodthirsty, Dzuma
has long since decided she should be in charge.
The arrival of Okafor and the refugees, and now
the PCs, has given her the opportunity. She will
try to get the PCs to openly decry the primitive
state of their society and discredit Vidan. She will
also attempt to turn them against Okafor and the
refugees, again in her attempts to supplant Vidan.
To entice them she will offer any assistance she
can to help the PCs.
STRENGTH 2, AGILITY 3, WITS 5, EMPATHY 4STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 2HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Observation 3, Stamina 2, Medical Aid 2,SKILLS: Ranged Combat 1, Close Combat 3,
Manipulation 2, Command 3
TALENT: Counselor
WEYLANDER CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Observation 2, Stamina 2, Manipulation 3,
Command 3
GEAR: Walking stick, M4A3 pistol (3TALENT: Hard Hitter, Weapon Specialist (Knife)
reloads), fine garments with the Weyland
Corporation logoWeyland Corporation overalls
GEAR: Knife, .357 Magnum (1 reload), tattered
197G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
LEO NARD LES P ERA
Outgoing, caring but bitter, Lespera is the highly
respected leader of the workers. While he appears to
support the chief executives, he is angry at their deci-
sion to tamper with the atmosphere processor. It cost
two workers’ lives to the ferals to do it, and the workers
and jungle suffer for it. He has been quietly stoking
the growing resentment that is simmering against the
Weylanders. He genuinely likes Vidan and only this stops
him rebelling openly. If Vidan is removed from power or
harmed, Lespera will start the revolt.
He wants peace for the people but will hint to the
PCs that unrest is just beneath the surface.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 5, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Heavy Machinery 2, Comtech 1, Medical
Aid 2, Manipulation 1
WORKERS’ LEADER
TALENT: Spaceship Mechanic
GEAR: Basic tools
YEN YAMADA
CHIKO NDI O KAFO R
REFUGEE FROM THE CHILDREN
OF THE TWO DIVINES
WEYLANDER CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Spoiled, vindictive and resentful, Yen wants to main-
tain the status quo but to rule alone. She enjoys the
rush of power, and neither Vidan nor Dzuma give her
the respect she wants. She sees the PCs as powerful
allies and will promise them anything if they assist
her in removing her rivals for power.
STRENGTH 5, AGILITY 3, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 5
SKILLS: Observation 2, Ranged Combat 2, Close
Combat 3, Manipulation 2, Command 3
TALENT: Quick Draw
GEAR: Knife, battered 37A2 shotgun (5
reloads), Weyland Corporation jacket
19 8
Selfless, hopeful but world-weary, Okafor cannot
now understand how he was swept-up by the
Children of the Two Divines. He has not seen a
Xeno­morph, the “Angel,” although he knows the
Ovomorph in his crashed ship has something to do
with it.
He has witnessed the infection that the Per-
fected spread, not least in Mother Ma’Kayla herself,
and all he wants now is a place to live in peace.
He fears Mother Ma’Kayla will come looking for
them, and desperately wants to find greater
safety—he sees the PCs as his way to achieve it.
Despite being under house arrest, he will attract
the PCs’ attention and beg for their help. If the
PCs ask about the Children of the Two Divines he
will trade his knowledge of the cult, and the Ovo-
morph in his crashed ship, in return for help and
protection.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Heavy Machinery 1, Comtech 2,
Piloting 2, Medical Aid 2, Command 1
TALENT: Bodyguard
GEAR: Small Knife1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
M O T H E R M A’ K AY L A A N D
THE CHILDREN OF THE TWO DIVINES
Once the PCs have established themselves and
searched the crashed Heliades-class J ship, they will
hear another Heliades-class J vessel—this is Mother
Ma’Kayla. She has been hunting down Chikondi
Okafor and the refugees, desperate to capture them
alive and make an example by punishing them before
the cult. Tracking the ship’s transponder, she finds
Dylan Colony.
A R R I VA L : The PCs can see the ship circle the old
colony and the plateau, before landing on a plateau to
the north, near the location of the crashed ship. They
can’t make out any more details, but Ma’Kayla and her
devotees search the crashed ship.
C O N F R O N TAT I O N : The PCs will be confronted
by Mother Ma’Kayla and eight devotees, either at the
crashed ship (if the PCs choose to travel to investigate
the new ship’s arrival) or at the Weylander plateau (if
they choose to wait and see what happens). See the
sidebar Introducing Mother Ma’Kayla. If the confron-
tation plays out on the Weylander plateau Chikondi
Okafor will see Ma’Kayla and he and the refugees will
try to hide from her view, terrified of being found.
Ma’Kayla will introduce herself and say she is
searching for the crew (and cargo, if the PCs have
taken it) of the crashed vessel, as they are friends, and
asks if the PCs have seen them. If the PCs deny any
knowledge, or state the refugees are already dead,
she will simply nod. The PCs can tell she does not
believe them with a successful OBSERVATION roll. If
the PCs admit to knowing of the refugees Ma’Kayla
will demand that they be returned to her at once and
threatens reprisals if the PCs do not comply.
In the unlikely event that the PCs agree to hand
the refugees over Vidan and the majority of the Wey-
lander workers will vociferously disagree and prevent
this from happening.
Once the confrontation reaches deadlock Mother
Ma’Kayla will tell the PCs the matter is not resolved,
they cannot leave without her permission, and her ship
has orders to fire on the Solovetsky Island should it
attempt to leave (her ship is a Heliades-class J vessel
(page 75) armed with three light railgun turrets
and two Short Lance ASAT missile batteries—page 176
of the core rulebook). She and her devotees will return
to their ship.
INTRODUCING MOTHER MA’KAYLA
Tall and lithe, Mother Ma’Kayla walks with graceful
eyes don’t look at you, they look through you.
elegance. But she isn’t right. Her head is slightly
Composed and sure of herself, she stops before
too large, swollen and distended, her arms and
you, an almost mesmerizing sight. A slight smile
legs are bulky and just that little bit too long, her
plays across her lips.
THE CLIFF-DWELLERS’ CAMP
The camp is ragged, with buildings made from rough-
hewn wood and prefabricated panels and frames.
Tarpaulins keep the rains out. Old and rusted tools lie
alongside crude home-made replacements. Each of
the six plateaus has a giant wooden post projecting
twenty meters into the sky—primitive lightning rods.
The people on the plateau are fearful. Years living with
the threat of the ferals, and the daily terror that they
or a loved one might be dragged off to be butchered,
have cowed these folk and made them timid. However,
the arrival of the PCs is an enormous event. Everyone
is cautious, yet curious to get a look at the newcomers.
T H E C L I F F S : The cliffs are all sheer, and hard to
climb even with proper gear. Any MOBILITY attempt
comes with a −3 modification, with +1 for modern
climbing equipment. Two successful rolls are needed to
scale the cliff, each taking a Turn. Any failed roll and the
character plummets to the rocky ground, taking falling
damage as normal.
199G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
TH E CLIFF-D W ELLERS’ CA M P
T H E
W O R K E R S ’
S H A N T Y
F A R M
CROPS
POND
ANIMAL
PENS
POND
POND
T H E
B L U F F
ME
ET
H O IN G
US
E
TUNNEL
ENTRANCE
S H R I N E
J U N G L E
N A B O
REFUGEE
CAMP
ROUND
HOUSE
E N C L A V E
JUDGEMENT
BLUFF
J U N G L E
MAP LEGEND
GIANT WOODEN POST
10×10 METERS
UNOCCUPIED
WATER BUTTS
TENT
SHARP POLES
20 01 0 .
R O P E B R I D G E S : Twenty meters long and three
wide, these bridges appear rickety—any PC crossing
one for the first time must make a MOBILITY roll or
gain +1 STRESS LEVEL for the experience. But they are
surprisingly strong, and will take 12 damage before
they break, double damage from fire. Anyone on one
when it breaks must make a MOBILITY roll with a −2
modification to grab hold of something, otherwise
they fall the 100 meters to the jungle floor below.
T U N N E L : The tunnel is the only easy way up. The
entrance is hidden by an outcrop of rock, requiring an
OBSERVATION roll to spot from the ground, although
it’s easy to spot from the air. If the PCs fail to find it, a
party of cliff-dwellers will eventually make contact.
W O R K E R S ’ S H A N T Y T O W N : Only workers live
here, a busy and smelly place with an ever-present
sense of anxiety. Small cooking fires fill the air with
smoke as dogs and chickens run free and people move
between the shacks and tents that make this place so
crowded. A huge mound of laundry sits next to the
rain-filled pool, where the scrubbing workers sit up to
their waists. A guard makes sure no unauthorized folk
cross the bridge to the Bluff.
B L U F F : A few senior workers live here, but it’s simi-
larly busy to the Shanty Town.
FA R M : All the space here is used to grow food, with
tightly packed crops in small plots. A few chickens,
sheep and goats are squashed together in rancid
animal runs, and there is a sealed wooden Tarantula
farm, a dangerous but delightful delicacy.
S H R I N E : A large wooden gazebo, with a slatted
wooden floor, dominates one end of this plateau, faced
by a ring of huge stones. The craftsmanship is much
better than that found in the rest of the camp, and the
stones have been roughly carved to resemble human
figures. It’s uncanny, but the stone figures, as rudimen-
tary as they are, all seem to be crying out in desperation.
The community will come together at the Shrine to
decide the fate of the refugees from the Children of the
Two Divines. Vidan favors welcoming them as citizens,
but Dzuma and Yen don’t. Dzuma wants to cast them
out to fend for themselves, but Yen claims this will see
them become ferals. She demands their execution for
the safety of all. Okafor will plead for mercy, begging
the PCs to intervene on their behalf. If they don’t, Yen
wins the day, and the refugees will be thrown from
Judgment Bluff.
E X P E D I T I O N S
N A B O : The main trade and meeting plateau for the
community. Huts and tents hum with activity, from
tanning hides, making spears and slaughtering ani-
mals, to weaving clothes, firing pottery and crafting
crude jewelry.
M E E T I N G H O U S E : A sturdy long-house with a tar-
paulin covering the front to keep the rain off, a fire pit
that fills the center of the house and furs and blankets
lining the floor. It is used by the chief executives as a
meeting hall, court room, and feasting place. The PCs
will be invited to bunk down here during their stay.
J U D G M E N T B L U F F : Fenced off from the rest of
the Nabo plateau by a low wooden palisade, Judg-
ment Bluff is the community’s place of justice. Below
the twisted outcrop is a grove of plants that resemble
giant bamboo. Those guilty of any crime are thrown
from the outcrop to their deaths on the stakes below,
while the people watch. There are some bones at the
base of the cliff, but not many—before an execution,
a guard blows a long wooden horn that emits a rum-
bling note, calling the ferals to a free feast.
R E F U G E E C A M P : The refugees from the death cult
live here, in tattered tents. A guard always watches
them from behind the palisade.
E N C L AV E : Grand and well maintained, with sturdy
wooden buildings and better-quality furnishings, this
plateau is the exclusive home of the Weylander board
members. The chief executives live in the largest house,
on the south-east facing cliff. The colony’s long data disc
is here. If the PCs analyze it they will learn the following:
Dylan Colony continued to function for nearly 40
years after the Isolation, although many people left.
Unrest and political infighting saw the society
fracture in 2142.
2144 the mining operations ceased and the
facilities to the northwest of the colony were
moth-balled (instructions to re-start the facility are
recorded here).
2145 civil unrest running riot and collapse of
authority and civic control.
T
T
T
T
R O U N D H O U S E : This wood and stone building
serves as the Weylanders’ board room. Any matters
that require all the executives to contribute are dis-
cussed here. When the PCs first arrive, they will be
escorted here to receive the community’s hospitality
and speak with the chief executives.
201G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE CRASHED SHIP
The Heliades-class J vessel was badly smashed in the
crash. The top two decks are an unrecognizable mass
of twisted metal and shattered trees. Access to the
ship can be gained through the torn hull on the lowest
deck via the vehicle bay. It’s partly swamped with mud
and earth from the jungle floor. From there it takes an
easy MOBILITY roll, with a +2 modification, to climb
the catwalks to reach the cargo hold.
T H E B R I D G E : This is hard to reach, needing a
MOBILITY roll with a −2 modification to squeeze
through the twisted wreckage. Once reached the PCs
see the systems are all destroyed, but it is still sending
out a transponder ping. They can turn this off.
T H E H O L D : The hold is a shambles after the crash,
with discarded baggage, shredded bags and papers
scattered all over. If the PCs search through the
papers, they find little of interest except a copy of
Mother Ma’Kayla’s letter to her devotees, the second
campaign clue (page 162). There are also three
small wooden crates. One is empty. The second has
been crushed by a falling beam, the Xeno­morph
egg inside it splattered and dead. It’s impossible to
retrieve it but the PCs could take a sample. In the third
is a live Ovomorph—it’s hibernating and does not
immediately open (see the event Wakey Wakey).
T H E AT M O S P H E R E P R O C E S S O R
The automated processes that have kept this place
running have been struggling for years, and it shows.
The rhythmic hum, hiss and clank of the machinery
is not right, and there is no way to access the under-
ground levels. Any PC with the HEAVY MACHINERY skill
will know that a major control hub should be located
on Platform 13.
G R O U N D L E V E L : The phosgene is most concen-
trated here, and everyone breathing it must make a
roll against its effects every Turn instead of every Shift.
A C C E S S D O O R : This huge door, set into the floor
of the processor, is open, revealing a 20-meter-deep
pit that would normally be used to access the lower
levels. However, it has long since been blocked off.
The pit has been used by the ferals to dispose of their
victims—the bottom is a gruesome display of rotting
humanity. Anyone viewing this gains +1 STRESS LEVEL .
P L AT F O R M 1 3 : The platform’s southern side has
a working control panel that will allow the PCs, with
a successful COMTECH roll, to adjust the atmosphere
processor’s output. The large service lifts on either
side of the platform work, with access ladders along-
side them.
The ferals use this platform as a nest, as exhaust
pipes constantly flood it with clean air. It is a shambles,
with shabby sheets on the floor and bones, sticks and
spears littered all over. At any time 15 ferals are here.
They will notice the PCs approach as they ascend to
the platform, and will hide amongst the debris, pipes,
and girders. Enter stealth mode. Once the PCs reach
platform 13 they will see the overwhelming number of
ferals, in a sudden and silent standoff. All must make a
Panic Roll.
As soon as a PC takes any action, or makes any
sound, all hell breaks loose. Five ferals attack, while
the others flee, spooked by the invasion of their nest
and shimmying down the beams and scaffolds. They
can be heard screaming and yelping as they escape.
T H E M I N I N G FAC I L I T Y
The facility was professionally moth-balled and
remains in good condition. The instructions to access
202
and restart the facility are contained in the colony’s
long data disc.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TH E ATM OS P H ER E P ROCESSO R
PLATFORM 13
REACTOR
STACK
ACCESS
DOORS
GROUND
LEVEL
AIRFLOW
LOUVERS
ENTRANCE
250 METERS
EVENTS
I N A F L A S H : The weather changes in a flash—
literally. Lightning strikes the ground or a wooden
lightning rod on a random plateau. Anyone within
MEDIUM range suffers an attack with twelve Base Dice,
Damage 1. At your discretion this could set something
valuable on fire.
R O L L I N T H E F O G : Dense fog forms throughout
the jungle, reducing visibility to SHORT range. With
the fog the sounds of the jungle are deadened. An
eerie silence descends, only broken by the occasional
scrabble of something in the undergrowth. Everyone
gains +1 STRESS LEVEL . This may be a good prelude to
The Raiding Party event.
203G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
T H E R A I D I N G PA R T Y : Suddenly from the jungle
undergrowth the PCs hear war cries and yelps of
excitement. A party of four Tomogo have smelled
them and want to snatch one of the group. They start
to hunt the PCs. Enter stealth mode. The Tomogo
intend to use their tried and tested tactics—they will
stalk closer before two will make a diversionary attack
at the front, while two others will use that distraction
to grab the tail-end charlie.
T H E WA N D E R I N G C H I L D : One of the devotee
refugees, Valery Reina, desperate to get some goat’s
milk for her baby, sneaks out of the camp in the
night and past the snoozing guard. The PCs get an
OBSERVATION roll to hear her as she crosses the Nabo
plateau. If they don’t, or choose not to act, she will
be caught on the Farm, creating a lot of noise. She is
dragged back by a guard and accused of stealing. If
the PCs don’t intervene, Vidan will regrettably pass
the death sentence on her, and she will be thrown
from Judgment Bluff, along with the inattentive guard.
WA K E Y WA K E Y : The Facehugger in the Ovomorph
wakes up and goes looking for a host at a moment
when the PCs are nearby, to create the greatest ten-
sion or trouble. If it is still inside the crate, the PCs will
hear a scrabbling noise for three Rounds before the
Facehugger bursts out. If the egg has been removed
from the crate, any PC within MEDIUM range can make
an OBSERVATION test to see or hear the egg open. At
your discretion it may attack the PCs, or impregnate
a nearby NPC. The cliff-dwellers will not react well to
this and may turn on the PCs as bringers of evil.
T H E F E R A L S AT TA C K : The ferals, agitated by the
invasion of their nest by the PCs, have been yelping
and calling in the forest, building for an aggressive
assault on the cliff-dwellers. Their calls can be heard
coming from all directions and getting closer and
closer to the plateau. All who hear this gain +1 STRESS
LEVEL . At the moment of highest tension, they will
appear at the base of the cliffs, and start climbing.
There are dozens of them.
T H E W O R K E R S R E V O LT : Tensions amongst
the workers reach breaking point, as it’s clear the
executives are using the PCs to feather their own
nests, while keeping the status quo. Led by Lespera,
the workers storm the Bluff and then the Enclave, to
demand equality. The executives will try to placate
them long enough to get them back to the Shanty
Town and defuse the situation, but—at your discre-
tion—the angry mob can grab the leaders and throw
them from Judgment Bluff.
FINALE
Mother Ma’Kayla’s patience wears thin. She contacts
the PCs giving them one last chance to hand the
refugees over. Her ship fires a warning missile that
just misses as a demonstration of her intent. If the PCs
refuse again, she says: “I regret you have forced my
hand and denied me my righteous retribution against
my wayward children. I have ordered my devotees to
overload the atmosphere processor. It will explode in
three hours, with the force of 15 mega tons. You will all
die. It is a pity, for you could have joined the Children of
the Two Divines and lived your lives in the glorious pur-
suit of perfection. If you attempt to leave, I will shoot
your ship down. If you wish to live, place the refugees,
alone, on the plateau by your shrine—leave them there
for us to collect. Once they are aboard you will be free
to depart. Don’t think you can repair the processor—
I have sent some friends to keep you occupied.”
20 4
Ma’Kayla has released two Stage IV XX033 Xeno­
morphs, Deacons (page 135), to cause panic and
fear at the cliff-dwellers’ settlement. They can be
heard squealing in the distance. Climbing the cliff is
no barrier to these monsters and they will raid the
plateau at a time to best enhance the tension.
It’s up to the PCs how they want to resolve this
situation. If they rush to the atmosphere processor,
they will have to cope with the ferals (although some
are dead, killed by the Children of the Two Divines)
and five devotees left behind specifically to prevent
the overload being deactivated. To deactivate the
overload requires a HEAVY MACHINERY roll, and a
Turn of work, followed by a COMTECH roll and another
Turn of work. If the PCs successfully achieve this the
Solovetsky Island will come under attack as Mother
Ma’Kayla tries to use force to recapture the refugees.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
EPILOGUE
Once the dust settles, literally or metaphorically, there
are still opportunities to re-colonize Dylan Colony,
should the PCs want to press for that. The Great
Mother Mission’s chief medical officer may be shocked
by the reports of the ferals and proposes a mission to
return to the jungle to find, capture, and treat those
poor people, and welcome them back into civilization.
But is there still a Facehugger running free? ■
METAPUZZLE CLUE #2—MOTHER MA’KAYLA’S CRUMPLED LETTER
My Devoted Chi
ldren,
We have finally
found our masters
, our rulers, our G
ods,
and all we now see
k is to become one
with their purity.
They generously acc
epted our gifts. Th
ose who gave of
themselves so will
ingly to create thos
e gifts are now sh
ining
their happy souls
upon us from eterni
ty. We must help
our
masters in everythi
ng they do. In purs
uing their dreams,
you bring yourself
closer to their uniq
ue perfection. Go ou
Bring the people
t.
into our fold, find
what we need. And
you
will be rewarded w
ith the highest priz
e there is.
Until then, remem
ber the writings of
our lost Grand
Seer, Jannes Rue
di, that tell us of th
e undiscovered
Nephilim, the imm
ortal fallen gods w
hose touch is all
around us, of the bl
essed Destroying
Angel, of the mus
ic
that stirs their hear
ts and can move w
orlds. And whilst
we now pursue the
perfection of our m
SCRIBBLED ON THE REVERSE
asters, never forget
where they, and th
e Angels, and we,
came from—all
distant cousins un
data,
der the majesty of
the Nephilim.
Intact nav computer and
Mother Ma’Kay
la
ion
compression coil, compgerenessrator
catalyzer, secondaryuits, inline
buffer, fractal cond sharing
fuel suppressors, loadring and
units, all-purpose wi hing else
relay connectors, anyt
looks useful.
2 05G A M E
M O T H E R
3 .
S E C T I O N
L E A V E A L L E L S E
T O T H E G O D S
“We have a basic responsibility to our species to venture to other
worlds. Sailors on a becalmed sea, we sense the stirring of a breeze.”
—CARL SAGAN
The PCs are sent to a pristine planet, to colonize and
explore. But they are not the first to make landfall
here—they find the camp of a colony scouting team
stranded here 75 years ago. Under orders from Gov-
ernor Abantu, the PCs establish the new colony. But
as the colonists set up their new home, the PCs make
a terrible discovery—the ancient ruins of an Engineer
city, and the remnants of their genetic creativity. Can
the PCs uncover the terrifying secrets of the city in
time to save themselves and the new colony?
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
In 2100, just before the Isolation, a small survey crew
from Gorham Colony scouted the KOI-1966 system,
and found KOI-1966.03, the third planet. They nick-
named it “Aljanna” after the Hausa word for paradise.
They set up a forward base camp, but before the
planet could be colonized the Isolation changed
everything. The scouting crew soon discovered the
buried remains of an ancient Engineer city, and the
horrors that lay within.
When the Engineers fled this area of space thou-
sands of years ago, the city was abandoned in a hurry.
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
The comms unit buzzes, the incoming ID code
showing it’s Gaius, calling from UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
“Good day Solovetsky Island. I hope all is well.
As you know, a key element of the Great Mother
Mission is to re-colonize this sector of space under
the collaborative banner of the United Nations,
and not any one supernation or corporation. The
third planet in the KOI-1966 system, KOI-1966.03,
was noted as suitable for colonization before the
Isolation, and this has been corroborated by our
long-range survey scans. Governor Abantu has
taken a close personal interest in the colonization
of this planet—between you and me he is des-
perate for a good news story, and setting up the
20 6
They left behind the preserved remains of their cre-
ations—a form of proto-human, a primitive Arcturian,
a Fulfremmen, others now impossible to identify, and
XX121 Xeno­morphs.
The scouting crew disturbed the hibernating Xeno­
morphs and were quickly taken as hosts. Since then,
the hive has grown, the Xeno­morphs exploiting the
indigenous life on Aljanna and living in the dark halls
of the city.
first colony of the Great Mother Mission will be
that story.
Your task is to travel to KOI-1966.03 as the
advance party for the colonization. The Ìyánlá will
be 24 hours behind you. We have four atmosphere
processors riding on Ìyánlá’s back and consuming
fuel at a terrible rate, so we need to get them
deployed soon, and thousands of colonists on ice,
to wake up and start making better worlds for all.
You will oversee the colonization operation and
then survey the planet for valuable resources.
As I said, Governor Abantu himself is the driving
force behind this expedition and expects to see
rapid results. Don’t let him down.”1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
C L U E S T O T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E
The PCs can learn the third campaign clue during this
expedition, by investigating the Gallery of the Ages
within the Engineer city and activating the Engineer
archives. The PCs will learn that the Engineers created
the Xeno­morphs and the Perfected but then could
not control them. They decided to leave this sector of
space behind, using a device they call “the Lychgate.”
KOI-1966.03—ALJANNA
KOI-1966.03—ALJANNA
KOI-1966.03 is a paradise world, a pristine twin
of Earth. It has a warm and temperate climate,
with tropical regions at the equator and freezing
poles. However, it does suffer from high levels of
ultraviolet radiation from the local star, equivalent
to Weak radiation that only takes effect once per
week—something an atmosphere processor can fix
by adding ozone to the stratosphere. Gravity is Earth
standard. The only significant difference is the day
length of 48 hours instead of 24.
The planetary details for KOI-1966.03—Aljanna—
are noted to the right and can be used to expand the
story of the PCs’ adventures on this world, should
they choose to continue the colonization once this
expedition has finished, using the rules in the Appen-
dix: Building Your Own Better World (page 275).
SOLAR SYSTEM
& COLONY RECORD
KOI-1966 System and KOI-1966.03
SURVEYED PLANET POSITION
PARENT STAR
3
Single
G Class White Star
GAS GIANTS
ROCKY
PLANETSICE PLANETS
ASTEROID
BELTSRADIATION
12
3NONE
PLANET SIZEATMOSPHEREHYDRO-
SPHEREDAY LENGTHAXIAL TILT
12,500 KMBreath-
ableTemper-
ate Wet48 Hours20ºº
20
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL
FEATUREORBITAL
PERIODPLANETARY
PERSONALITY
1GTemperateAbun-
dant life460 daysForgiving
4
KOI-1966.03
PLAINS, GREAT BEASTS
ROAM THE LANDSCAPE
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
PATHFINDER BEACON
THERMAL SPRINGS
AND STEAM VENTS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
HUGE RIVERS AND VAST
RIVER DELTAS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
FORESTS INFESTED WITH
INSECT-LIKE CREATURES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
GENTLY ROLLING
GRASSLAND HILLS
ODDLY COLORED FORESTS
OF ALIEN VEGETATION
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
+2
SEAS WITH GIANT ICEBERGS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
207G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
KICKING OFF THE ACTION
The action starts with the PCs arriving in the KOI-1966
system. They can learn about the system with a simple
survey scan, which also picks up a very weak signal
from an old colony pathfinder locator beacon on the
third planet. This is not a distress beacon but was
used by scouting teams to denote their presence and
a suitable location for colonization. It’s located in the
northern hemisphere (Northern Hemisphere West in
the diagram on page 207) in a region of mountains,
rivers and river deltas. If the PCs check, they can see
that this beacon is using a pre-Isolation code and is
thus at least 75 years old.
Further investigation reveals there is a small
prefabricated pre-colony base established on a wide
plain bordered by large rivers and a low mountain
range. There are no signs of human life and there is
no reply to any communication attempt. Their scans
also detect the following in the vicinity of the pre-col-
ony base:
A huge collapsed cliff-face, 25 km to the north,
radiating signatures for many rare and highly
sought after minerals. A successful COMTECH roll
will identify rhodium, iridium and platinum, a pros-
pector’s dream find.
A group of lakes, 50 km to the south, are blooming
with multicolored flashes indicating some form of
T
T
T
T
sea life: red, auburn, green, yellow, and orange—the
water is a painter’s palette gone mad. Perhaps
an indigenous source of food—just what a new
colony needs.
200 km to the northeast, the plains are filled
with beasts, herds of alien quadrupeds roaming
the landscape. A source of food, or creatures to
domesticate?
There is a large area of increased thermal signa-
tures 100 km to the east. A successful COMTECH roll
doesn’t give a clear answer but suggests this could
be either some low level volcanic activity, or a
cluster of lifeforms (it is caused by the underground
Engineer city).
It’s up to the PCs how they explore the planet. Landing
the Solovetsky Island anywhere requires a PILOTING
roll. If the roll fails the landing is still successful but the
ship comes down heavily, causing D3 damage.
S H O R E PA R T Y : The prospector on the Solovetsky
Island, Emily Quintana (page 158), insists she joins
the PCs planet-side to assist with prospecting and
surveying the environment. She will keep an eye out
for the PCs taking any finds and hoarding them for
themselves.
PRE-COLONY BASE CAMP
Sitting in the center of a three-kilometer wide grassy
plain, the camp consists of six prefabricated rigid
tents surrounding the pathfinder locator beacon, a
box one meter across with a series of aerials. It has
fallen on its side but continues to function, powered
by a grimy portable solar panel that stands next to it.
The camp has obviously been abandoned for a very
long time—the structures are smeared by ages-old
dust and dirt, containers and boxes lie scattered, the
grasses of the plains have grown around and through
the place. A battered Daihotai 8×8 tractor rests a few
meters away, slumped in upon itself with rotted tires
and its structure rusted and broken.
P R E FA B R I C AT E D T E N T S : One of the six rigid
tents has completely collapsed, and the others are
damaged. Some were torn open by the Xeno­morphs
20 8
when they claimed the last of the scouting crew—with
a successful OBSERVATION roll the PCs can detect that
some of the damage does not appear to be caused by
weather.
Despite the damage, there are many sealed boxes
of useful supplies—the PCs can find anything they
wish that would have been available in 2100, at your
discretion, unless it’s perishable, in which case it has
long since rotted away.
In one of the tents, amongst the camp debris, is
a data pad that belonged to the team leader, Daran
Bako. If the PCs examine it, they will find Bako’s
survey of this region, his clear recommendation that
it’s a perfect place to establish a new colony, and the
details of his last log entries. See the sidebar Daran
Bako’s Log.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
DARAN BAKO’S LOG
Daran Bako, expedition leader, Colonization Scout Team Delta-19, Aboki settlement, Gorham Colony
11/07/2109:Landfall on KOI-1966.03, henceforth called “Aljanna” for this planet is paradise.
12/02/2109:Initial surveys encouraging. This planet is ripe for colonization and this location
is superb, with access to plentiful resources within hundreds of kilometers. It’s
such a kind and forgiving world that some of my team are talking about giving up the
scouting life, and staying to set up the colony and live here.
01/11/2110:Our retrieval ship hasn’t arrived on time. Efforts to contact them are fruitless as
there’s some interstellar interference. Jamal suggests it could be a solar flare.
03/24/2110:Supplies are running low and still no sign of retrieval. The team is becoming
dispirited. We are having to cast our net further. This planet can certainly feed us,
we just have to get on with it. There’s potentially a verdant spot out to the east,
and we go to explore that tomorrow.
COLONIZING ALJANNA
The planet appears ideal for colonization, just what
the Great Mother Mission has been looking for. Once
the PCs have made their initial exploration of the
pre-colony base, they receive a message from the
Ìyánlá, that they are in orbit and will commence colo-
nization procedures in one Shift. As such, the PCs are
expected to proceed with colonization, by Governor
Abantu, Ìyánlá’s synthetic overseer Gaius, and the
other Solovetsky Island crew members—they not only
think the place is perfect for colonization but want the
distinction of establishing the first colony under the
Great Mother Mission, to be recorded for posterity as
founders, and get a fat bonus in their paycheck.
Colonization should take place before the PCs
find the Engineer city and the dangers that lurk there.
However, if the PCs are determined to delay coloniza-
tion for any reason, make sure they feel the full wrath
and displeasure of Governor Abantu who, if necessary,
will get the PCs on comms and give them a direct
order to begin the operation.
Once the PCs are ready to start the colonization
process you should use the guidance in the Appendix:
Building Your Own Better World (page 275), and
follow these steps:
1 The colonization will take place at the PCs’ loca-
tion, in the Northern Hemisphere West region of
the planet.
2 If any of the PCs have family in cryosleep aboard
Ìyánlá, they can choose to have them join the
colony deployment.
3 An advance party under Colony Supervisor Man-
isha Kiran arrives but the PCs and their crew are
expected to manage the operation to get the
machinery on the ground. This requires a Shift
of work and a HEAVY MACHINERY roll to control
each deployment of the atmosphere processor
and three colony modules (four rolls in total)—an
NPC crew member can make this roll if their skill is
highest. If the roll is failed for any of these, roll on
the table on page 210 to see how badly things
go south.
4 Once the colony is safely on the ground, the PCs
should roll for the colony’s starting attribute values
and Development Level (page 285)—then the
colony is ready to play.
5 In honor of Daran Bako and his crew of scouts,
Governor Abantu chooses to name the colony
“Aljanna.” Colony Supervisor Kiran and the initial
colonists celebrate this moment with the PCs.
Cartons of prefab meals and bug juice are cracked
open, backs are slapped and cheers ring out.
Governor Abantu contacts the PCs to congratulate
them, and everyone takes a moment to relish their
success.
2 09G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
D6ATMOSPHERE PROCESSORCOLONY MODULE
1–3It comes down with a bump but is otherwise
undamaged.It comes down with a bump but is otherwise
undamaged.
4It crash lands but is not seriously damaged. However,
it will take three months to repair and bring online.The module crash lands and suffers some damage,
but no one is hurt. The colony loses 1 point from a
random colony attribute (page 279).
5It lands in the wrong place, blocking a river. The water
pools around and inside the processor, creating a
new lake.The module’s shielding breaks away. D6 colonists
aboard are killed, but it’s seen as a terrible accident.
6A system fails and the processor loses control. It spins
and crashes in a huge explosion leaving a twisted
mass of wreckage. The incident is seen as an accident,
but people blame the PCs.The module suffers a catastrophic failure and is wrecked,
killing 2D6 colonists aboard. The colony loses 1 point
from two random attributes (page 279). The incident is
seen as an accident, but people blame the PCs.
COLLAPSED CLIFF
The cliff is 25 km north of the base camp. A landslide
over a kilometer wide occurred some years ago,
revealing in cross-section the mineral rich caverns and
tubules within. Some are natural, but many are caused
by a Harvester-like creature, a fact the PCs can learn
with a successful OBSERVATION roll. This constant
internal erosion caused the landslide in the first place,
and the remaining cliff is highly unstable.
It is littered with mineral ores, including rhodium—
exceptionally rare and vital for electronic systems and
fuel components, iridium—used to harden alloys and
as a catalyst, and platinum—ever in demand. A very
rich find and a powerful reason to colonize the planet.
The enormous mound of jagged scree at the base
of the cliff stretches along its 1,000 meter length. It
requires a MOBILITY roll to climb across. If this is failed,
the PC slips and falls on the sharp rocks, taking one
point of damage. They must also roll a Stress Die—on
the scree begins to slip. The PC and all within
MEDIUM range must make a MOBILITY roll or get swept
along in the small avalanche, taking an eight Base
Dice attack, Damage 1. Another Stress Die should
sees a 50-meter-
then be rolled—this time a roll of
wide stretch of the cliff start to come down with an
earth-shattering crack. All who witness this gain +1
STRESS LEVEL and must make a MOBILITY roll to avoid
the rock fall. Anyone caught in its path takes a twelve
Base Dice attack, Damage 2.
At your discretion, this disturbance may rouse D6
small Harvesters that were within the rock (treat them as
Harvester Juveniles, page 318 of the core rulebook). They
are angry at being disturbed and will attack the PCs.
ALGAE LAKES
A series of lakes linked by rivers lies 50 km to the
south of the pre-colony base, at the apex of a huge
delta. They are filled with multicolored weeds and
algae, mostly growing around the shallow edges of
the water, where it rarely gets deeper than 1.5 meters.
If the PCs wade into the water to reach the plant life,
they can take a Turn to analyze it with an OBSERVA-
TION roll:
For one
the PCs learn that the weeds and algae
are all edible.
For two
they assess they are fast growing and
are food for other creatures, as evidenced by the
T
T
21 0
T
coin-sized bites taken out of the weeds’ leaves. The
weeds have electrocytes within their stems that
create a low electric current, presumably to keep
the predators away.
For three or more
the PCs realize that these
species are symbiotic, that the weeds use the algae
for basic minerals, and the algae attaches to the
weeds to grow its spores.
The predatory creatures, Octobugs, also live in the
mass of weed-algae. At your discretion, any PC in the
water will be attacked by D3 of them.1 0 .
THE OCTOBUGS OF PARADISE
No bigger than an adult’s hand and tan in color with
three tentacles, each Octobug is equipped with
razor-sharp gripping claws. They gain sustenance
from a form of electro-synthesis, with the ability
to detect the warmth and energy from powered
systems and absorb it. They are easily agitated and
excitable. Usually found in small groups, they are
most dangerous when they act as a swarm.
E X P E D I T I O N S
SPEED: 1
HEALTH: 1
MOBILITY: 4 on land, 10 in water
OBSERVATION: 6
OCTOBUG ATTACKS
D6ATTACK
1–2POWER HUNGRY: The Octobug makes an attack with eight Base Dice, Damage 1, ignores armor. If it hits, it
sucks D3 power from the Power Supply of a random item in the target’s possession. If the item is a compres-
sion suit, respirator or other breathing kit the power dips and the item loses D3 from its Air Supply instead.
3
SUFFOCATING: The creatures cover, fill or otherwise block the airways of their target. Attack with six Base
Dice, Damage 1. If any damage is inflicted the victim is grappled and suffers suffocation.
4
NECROTIZING VENOM: The Octobug attacks with six Base Dice, Damage 1. If the target suffers any damage,
they are bitten, jabbed, spiked or scratched with venom that starts to eat them from within, Virulence 8.
They must make a save every Turn or suffer one point of Damage until they resist, get MEDICAL help, or die.
5
GO FOR THE HOT SPOT: The Octobug targets the biggest source of power within SHORT range (this could be a
compression suit worn by a PC, or a vehicle), and makes an attack with six Base Dice, Damage 1. If the attack
hits the target suffers a huge power surge, sparks fly, systems fry, and the equipment shorts out completely
(if the target is a vehicle, roll on the Component Damage Table on page 115 of the core rulebook).
6
SWARMING CRITTERS: The Octobugs swarm and go for the kill, tearing, slicing and ripping at their target.
The victim takes an attack with eight Base Dice, Damage 1. Any damage mitigated by armor causes an extra
point of damage to the armor and may cause a sealed suit to tear (page 93).
THE ROAMING HERDS
If the PCs travel 200 kilometers to the northeast, they
find herds of alien bovine creatures, calmly grazing
the long grasses. An OBSERVATION roll will reveal the
grass to the rear and flanks of the herd rustling as
something unseen moves amongst the stalks. There
are three indigenous creatures, akin to Lionworms
(page 320 of the core rulebook), hunting the bovines.
The Lionworms realize the PCs are not prey and will
ignore them unless they get in the way of the hunt, in
which case one will attack, not to kill but to warn the
PCs away from the Lionworms’ meal.
If the PCs want to analyze the bovines, they can
either hunt one (Health 6, Armor Rating 2, MOBILITY 5)
or make a MOBILITY roll to get close and a CLOSE
COMBAT roll to grapple. Once grappled the bovine will
go limp and compliant. An OBSERVATION roll will tell
the PCs the following:
For one
the PCs assess that the creatures are
edible and have a silky woolen coat that would be
valuable for making textiles.
For two
they assess that the creatures are par-
tially mammalian—partially reptilian, and probably
lay eggs to reproduce.
For three or more
the PCs realize that these
creatures are docile and should be easy to
domesticate.
T
T
T
211G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE FLORA OF THE CITY
The Engineer city has become home to a species
of pink toadstools of the fungus Ophiocordyceps
vehemens. These sweet-smelling fungi live in
dark, dank places and can be found anywhere
in the city. They disperse invisible spores in
response to movement within SHORT range.
Anyone exposed must make a Sickness Roll
against Virulence 6. If infected, after one Turn
they will begin to exhibit angry outbursts at the
slightest provocation. Get your players to role-
play this and reward them with a Story Point for
good roleplaying.
After a Shift, the victim becomes enraged, goes
berserk against any living thing, fighting until
they or their victim is dead, Broken or they are
restrained. The victims do not eat or drink, so may
perish through dehydration or starvation (page
106 of the core rulebook) if they fail to recover
soon enough or are not restrained and given
medical treatment. A successful MEDICAL AID roll
adds a +3 modification to the victim’s subsequent
Sickness Rolls. A victim makes another Sickness
Roll every 24 hours, against Virulence 6, until they
succeed and overcome the disease, or perish.
SITE O F TH E EN GIN EER CITY
RIVULET
MOUNTAINS
EARTH MOUNDS
EARTH MOUNDS
VALLEY
CENTRAL
HOLLOW
RIVULET
OPEN
MOUND
RIVULET
SHEER
CLIFF
500 METERS
21 21 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
ENGINEER CITY
The city is 100 km east of the base camp, and is
hidden beneath millennia of weathering and erosion,
as well as the growth of local plants and creatures. On
first examination the place looks natural, sitting on a
plain with semi-symmetrical mounds in the ground.
Outside this ring of mounds, the grassy earth rises
sharply until it meets the surrounding mountains and
cliffs. The view to the south, from the sheer cliff, is a
breath-taking vista of the planet’s awesome beauty.
Access to the area is either by air, or along a
500-meter-wide valley to the west.
The PCs can detect the slight increase in ambient
temperature here, either using the Solovetsky Island’s
scanners or with a Pups device and a COMTECH roll.
They cannot detect any obvious volcanic activity or
unusually large concentrations of animal or plant life.
M O U N D S : Grass-covered and wet, these mounds
cover ancient Engineer structures that are now just
archaeological relics. Excavation with a tractor or
digger will reveal these stony ruins.
R I V U L E T S : Rain running off the mountains has
turned the ground marshy, with a number of small
rivulets running down to a central hollow. Crossing
them is tricky, requiring a MOBILITY roll to avoid get-
ting stuck in the mud for one Round.
H O L L O W : The grassy ground here forms a hollow
bowl with a slushy pool of water at the bottom. This
ground has built up over the sliding iris-valve doors
that would have allowed a Juggernaut to dock below
ground. They are stuck open, hidden beneath this
unstable ground. Any disturbance—such as a PC
walking on it—risks a cave-in. Roll a Stress Die each
the earth liter-
Round a PC is in the hollow—on
ally falls under their feet, and they plunge into the
Juggernaut Bay. The hollow caves-in automatically
if a vehicle drives across it. Any PC that falls gains
+1 STRESS LEVEL , but only takes an eight Base Dice
attack, Damage 1, as their fall is slowed by the roots
and branches that fill the bay, and they land on the
buildup of mud at the bottom.
O P E N M O U N D : The earth mounds were formed
by the weathering of the site over thousands of years.
The open mound has had some of this earth taken
away by the Xeno­morphs, leaving a narrow tunnel in
the earth that accesses the southern Access Tower in
the Juggernaut Hub.
EN GIN EER CITY P RO FILE
EARTH MOUND
HOLLOWINACCESSIBLE
RUINS
JUGGERNAUT HUBTEMPLE
EARTH MOUNDS
INACCESSIBLE
RUINS
JUGGERNAUT DOCKING CAVERN
GALLERY OF THE AGES
500 METERS
213G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
INSIDE THE CITY
The Engineer city has been empty
for many thousands of years, aban-
doned before the Perfected could
arrive and destroy it. It has some
residual power that illuminates
its tunnels and chambers with a
gloomy blue glow but is otherwise
shrouded in shadow. It smells
musty and damp, an odor of stag-
nation and decay.
The ceremonial parts of the
city—the Temple and Gallery of the
Ages—are acoustically designed
to carry and amplify the songs
of the dead Engineers but have
that effect on any sound made
within them.
Doors within the city are either
large stone edifices that can be
opened by pushing for one Round
with a successful STAMINA roll with
a +3 modification or are vertically
slatted portcullis-style gates that are
operated by turning a handle set into
the wall beside them, making them
retract into the ceiling. The edifice
doors cannot be destroyed, but the
slatted gates can be, with Health 12,
Armor Rating 4.
J U G G ER N AUT H U B
ACCESS
TOWER
100×100 METERS
RUBBLE
JUGGERNAUT
BAY
TEMPLE
ANTE-CHAMBERS
ACCESS
TOWER
JUGGERNAUT HUB
J U G G E R N A U T B AY : Filled with mud and plant
growth, this place is musty and damp. The floor
consists of a huge iris-valve hatch large enough
for a Juggernaut to pass through, leading to the
Juggernaut Docking Cavern below. It is fractionally
open, leaving gaps in the floor half a meter wide—
just enough to squeeze through. The distance to the
floor is 300 meters, so the PCs will need plenty of
rope and a successful MOBILITY roll if they want to
rappel down to the cavern floor below. A failed roll
will see the PC get tangled in the ropes and stuck
dangling or fall the rest of the way to the cavern
floor, at your discretion.
21 4
A N T E C H A M B E R S : Huge empty rooms, once used
by the Engineers to congregate before boarding a
Juggernaut.
A C C E S S T O W E R S : Wide spiral staircases made of
stone that allow access to the surface. Only the south-
ern tower has access to the open mound on the surface.
J U G G E R N A U T D O C K I N G C AV E R N : This gigan-
tic circular chamber, 1,300 meters across, is big enough
to house ten Engineer Juggernauts—and five of these
enormous ships, old, cold, silent, empty, and long dead,
still rest here now, only accompanied by the lonely echo
of dripping water. This place is so awesome that anyone
viewing it for the first time gains +1 STRESS LEVEL.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TEMPLE
The only way to access the Temple is from either the
Juggernaut Bay or Docking Cavern, all other routes
are blocked by rubble and years of decay. A pyramid
shape, the Temple’s ceiling is 100 meters high, rising
to 200 meters over the central altar-dais.
S I X S TAT U E S : Within the depressed area of the
altar-dais are six enormous head statues, 20 meters
wide by 50 meters tall. In the gaps between them are
carvings of various Xeno­morphs, looking as if they are
climbing and embracing the statues. All viewing this
must make an OBSERVATION roll to recognize these
are carvings—all who fail the roll are shocked and
surprised and gain +1 STRESS LEVEL .
V I E W I N G P L AT F O R M : Raised five meters
above the temple floor, these are platforms once
used for congregations to watch and join the temple
ceremonies.
B A L C O N Y : Raised 20 meters above the viewing
platforms, these give a better view of the temple.
TEM P LE
RUBBLE
20×20 METERS
M
W
FO
E
R
I
I
N
AT
BALCONY
SLATTED
GATE
V
SLATTED
GATE
P
P
L
G
G
L
W
E
I
V
M
SIX
STATUES
SLATTED
GATE
RUBBLE
M
STEPS DOWN
E
FO
I
R
V
I
AT
W
R
I
E
FO
W
I
AT
N
L
G
P
P
G
L
N
M
V
DOWN TO
THE GALLERY
R
ARCHES
TO
JUGGERNAUT
HUB
FO
I
N
AT
DOWN TO
THE GALLERY
BALCONY
RUBBLE
215G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
TH E GA LLERY O F AG ES
THE GALLERY
OF THE AGES
CULTIVATION
CHAMBER 3
CULTIVATION
CHAMBER 1
Both an archive and a laboratory, the Engi-
neers used this place to experiment and
cultivate new forms of life, and to record
their successes and failures.
CULTIVATION
CHAMBER 2
CONTROL
DAIS
SLATTED
GATE
RAISED WALKWAY
100×100 METERS
R A I S E D WA L K WAY : Raised three meters
above the Display Floor, this walkway gives
an excellent view of the exhibits and access
to the whole facility. To scale this in a rush
requires a successful MOBILITY roll.
D I S P L AY F L O O R : Filled with transpar-
ent display cases and cubicles, elegantly
arranged around the ornate pillars, it is filled
with Engineer creations. The PCs can learn
the following, with a Turn of study and an
OBSERVATION roll:
For one
the PCs see there are many
forms of life represented here, including
humanoid, quadruped and multi-limbed
creatures—they identify a form of pro-
to-human, an Arcturian and three spec-
imens of Fulfremmen Abomination—a
Revenant, a Shambler and a Perfected, all
dead and preserved.
For two
the PCs realize that these are
all creations of the Engineers.
For three or more
the PCs realize that
all creations here are recorded as failures.
T
DISPLAY
FLOOR
SLATTED
GATE
T
UP TO THE
TEMPLE
UP TO THE
TEMPLE
TO
JUGGERNAUT
DOCKING
CAVERN
THE ENGINEERS’ SONG
Your eyes are assaulted by the sudden blue glare as glowing
hieroglyphs flood the air before and around you, spinning and
swirling, dazzling your mind and your vision. Around these
arise tall figures, human but not human, chiseled as an ancient
statue but graceful as a ballet dancer. You watch as they take
up their instruments and play a hypnotic tune and wonder
as a horseshoe-shaped vessel rises from the floor, spinning
upwards and away, followed by another and another. Eventu-
ally the music stops, the figures laying aside their instruments
to watch as one last image, of a vast spinning structure before
a beautiful be-clouded planet, slowly fades into shadow.
21 6
T
C O N T R O L D A I S : An ornate array of
machinery and equipment is designed in the
shape of an orrery, with dark metallic arms
sporting globe after globe, in a complex
arrangement representing hundreds of star
systems. Four seats allow a PC to sit cross-
legged at the controls, each seat with a
vertical or transverse flute of either an upper
or lower key. If a note is played on all four at
the same time the dais bursts into life, and
blue holographic glyphs suddenly rotate
in the air. See the sidebar The Engineers’
Song. This is the third campaign clue (page
162). A PC can try to decipher the glyphs
with an OBSERVATION roll with a −1 modifica-
tion, or alternatively DA/UT/UR aboard the
Solovetsky Island can do it for them.1 0 .
C U LT I VAT I O N C H A M B E R S 1 & 3 : Used to grow
Engineer specimens, these chambers are empty.
C U LT I VAT I O N C H A M B E R 2 : In their rush to
evacuate, the Engineers left behind live specimens of
the XX121 Xeno­morph. Over the years they managed
to escape, opening the once sealed door just far
enough for a Drone to squeeze out and explore. Now
the hive fills this chamber. A Queen slumbers in the
shadows at the far end, her work laying Ovomorphs
done for now, as 100 eggs lie dormant before her. She
E X P E D I T I O N S
is guarded by two Praetorian Stage VI Xeno­morphs,
the three of them too large to ever leave the city. The
hive has five Stage V Soldiers, and many Stage IV
Drones and Scouts. They are all PASSIVE .
The PCs can see this through the observation
windows set either side of the ajar door. They gain +1
STRESS LEVEL and must immediately make a Panic roll.
If this doesn’t alert the Xeno­morphs to their presence,
the PCs must make an opposed MOBILITY roll against
the Xeno­morphs’ eight Base Dice, to avoid detection.
Enter stealth mode.
EVENTS
Ì YÁ N L Á C A L L I N G : If the PCs are taking their time
over deciding to colonize KOI-1966.03, they receive
a message from Gaius. Despite being a synthetic, a
faint hint of frustration can be heard in his voice. He’s
pressing for an answer on the colonization potential
of KOI-1966.03, saying that Governor Abantu “is
desperate to see progress, and his comments on it are
frequent and vivid.” He asks for an urgent progress
report and needs a very good reason why the PCs are
not getting on with it.
D E V I L S I N T H E D A R K : The Engineer city is home
to vermin, and they skitter away if they hear noises or
see lights from the PCs. They PCs will hear this. If they
go looking for the cause they can catch a glimpse of
a rat-like creature with a successful OBSERVATION roll.
However, if they fail to find the source, or don’t even
try looking for it, the constant noises in the distance
give them +1 STRESS LEVEL .
T H E W I L D L I F E O F A L J A N N A : When out in the
wilderness, the PCs are stalked by an indigenous crea-
ture akin to a Lionworm (page 320 of the core rule-
book). Enter stealth mode. When the Lionworm makes
its first signature attack, it instead rushes a random
PC, then stops. The PC gains +1 STRESS LEVEL as the
creature scrutinizes them, before deciding the PCs are
not prey. If the PCs resist the urge to be hostile it will
turn and calmly slink away into the undergrowth.
FINALE
Once the PCs have discovered the Xeno­morph hive,
things will move quickly. Even if the PCs successfully
sneak away from the hive, an alert Xeno­morph will
detect them before they escape the Gallery of the Ages.
The chase is on. Three Xeno­morph Scouts and three
Drones give chase, with many more following behind
them, at your discretion.
E S C A P I N G T H E C I T Y : The PCs can slow down the
Xeno­morph chase by closing the door to their cultiva-
tion chamber. Just closing it will only delay the Xeno­
morphs by D6 Rounds. If the PCs have a cutting torch,
they can do a rush job of welding it shut, with a HEAVY
MACHINERY roll with a −3 modification—a success will
delay the Xeno­morphs by a further D3 Rounds. They
can try again if this fails until their torch runs out of
power. However, while the PCs are doing this, the
Xeno­morphs will be trying to force the door open. To
resist this, the PCs need to succeed at an opposed
STAMINA roll against eight Base Dice.
Closing the slatted gates will also slow the Xeno­
morphs by another D6 Rounds per gate they have to
smash through. If the PCs manage to out-distance the
Xeno­morphs, in a vehicle or a ship, the Xeno­morphs will
give up and return to the hive.
217G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
D E A L I N G W I T H T H E T H R E AT : Even if the PCs
escape the city, the threat to Aljanna and the newly
founded colony is terrible. The PCs could try to return
to the city to seal the Xeno­morphs inside, either by
sealing the internal doors, or collapsing the structure
in on itself with explosives, but this would come with
significant risk and the Xeno­morphs would oppose
it. Alternatively, they could try to convince Gaius
and Governor Abantu that the threat is so severe
they should use one of UNCSS Ìyánlá’s arsenal of
terraforming nuclear weapons, and nuke the site from
orbit—after all, it’s the only way to be sure. Abantu is
in favor, in order to protect and keep KOI-1966.03 as a
new colony prize delivered by the Great Mother Mis-
sion, but Gaius and Kamal Vartouhi of Weyland-Yutani
(page 170) are violently opposed to it. Gaius will
suggest they send an exploration team to check out
the PCs’ claims and offer the PCs the chance to lead it.
If the PCs are determined the site should be destroyed,
they can attempt an opposed MANIPULATION roll
against Gaius, with a −3 modification, to have him
relent and leave Governor Abantu clear to give the
order. It’s up to you how many, if any, of the Xeno­
morphs escape the blast…
EPILOGUE
The newly formed colony may need help getting on
its feet, and the PCs could be a part of that, exploring
and prospecting, or gathering much needed sup-
plies for the colonists. A Weyland-Yutani executive
may want to take advantage of the archaeology of
the planet, and proposes the PCs make a quiet and
unofficial return to the city—now better prepared—to
acquire samples and data that W-Y would pay hand-
somely for. ■
METAPUZZLE CLUE #3—TRANSLATION OF THE ENGINEER HOLO-GLYPHS IN THE GALLERY OF THE AGES
“THIS GALLERY IS TESTAMENT TO OUR INGENUITY—OUR INTELLIGENCE AND OUR EFFORTS—”
“BUT ALSO TO OUR FAILURE—WE MUST NOT BE TOO PRIDEFUL IN OUR ACHIEVEMENTS WHILE THEY TURN ON
US—WE MUST BE MINDFUL OF OUR HUBRIS THAT WE COULD CONTROL THAT WHICH WE CREATED—WE COULD
NOT—”
“WE CAN NOT—THIS HALL WILL STAND IN PERPETUITY—A MONUMENT TO OUR BRILLIANCE—BUT ALSO A
MONUMENT TO OUR IMPOTENCE—”
“WE MUST NOT MOURN THAT WHICH WE HAVE LOST—BUT LOOK TO THE FUTURE—”
“SO WE WILL DEPART—HARNESS THE LYCHGATE ONE LAST TIME BEFORE CASTING ITS GLORIOUS POWER
INTO THE DARKNESS OF THE PAST—LEAVING NO PATH FOR OUR PERFECTED CHILDREN TO FOLLOW—CASTING
THEM INTO OUR PAST—”
“TO BEGIN AGAIN—”
21 81 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
4 . T H E D E V I L L I V E S
I N S T I L L W A T E R S
“In waking the tiger, use a long stick.”
— M A O T S E -T U N G
The PCs find a rare thing in the Far Spinward Colo-
nies—a society that, on the surface at least, is working
well. May Outpost KOI-610.01, was once a 3WE Royal
Marine outpost until it was taken over by the Chinese
Asian Nations Collective (CANC, page 17). Now,
the society is at war with itself and at odds with
the Xeno­morphs that inhabit the nearby ruins of an
ancient Engineer pyramid. The PCs must negotiate the
deadly forces at work, deal with the UPP, explore the
wonders of the pyramid and prevent the colony falling
into a full-blown insurrection.
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
May Outpost KOI-610.01 was once a 3WE Royal
Marine outpost, with—according to the Weyland
Corporation files—nearly a billion people in 2100.
This was a typo, the fat finger of an administrator
hitting “zero” too many times. The real figure
wasn’t even a million.
The colony survived the Isolation. Then, thirty
years ago, the Chinese Asian Nations Collective
arrived, fresh from the disaster that was their
home, Curzic Colony, begging for somewhere to
settle. Permission was given, but the relationship
was never friendly. Ten years ago, the CANC took
control. After a bitter struggle, their leader, Colonel
Zhāngjié, declared himself Warlord of the newly
formed “Great Kĕnéng Cooperative.” The Royal
Marines who surrendered were ruthlessly murdered,
and the rest fled into the wilderness to carry on
the fight.
Ten years later, seismic activity at the far east-
ern end of Xián Hú (literally “salty lake”) led to the
collapse of the cliff, revealing an ancient Engineer
pyramid, and rousing the Xeno­m orphs that were
sleeping there. Those who went to explore were
never seen again. Since then, on the three nights
of the spring and winter equinoxes, XX121LV bio-
luminescent Xeno­m orphs (page 138) leave the
pyramid to roam. They wreaked havoc in the colony
until Zhāngjié learned that leaving human sacrifices
would gain their attention, preventing further death
and destruction—except for their doomed sacri-
ficial victims, dragged away into the lake. These
victims were taken to feed the growing Hive in the
depths of the pyramid.
The pyramid was put off limits by Zhāngjié’s
order, and life went on. Then, a month ago, a scout
ship of the UPP Cosmos Exploration Corps arrived
under the command of Lt Colonel Victor Drubov.
Offering gifts of advanced tech with the promise
of more, Drubov tried to persuade the Cooperative
to join the UPP. Zhāngjié is not convinced but sees
these soldiers as his way to finally unearth the
pyramid’s secrets. The arrival of the PCs is another
golden opportunity for Zhāngjié to get what he
wants for the Cooperative, and to play them off
against the UPP.
219G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
The PCs receive a video call from Gaius aboard
UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
“Your destination is May Outpost, designation
KOI-610.01. This is a Three World Empire military
base, first colonized in 2061 under the Weyland
Corporation then transferred to 3WE authority on
its establishment in 2088. The records suggest a
population of 900 million people in 2100—seems
a bit steep to me. The colony was not just a Royal
Marine base, it also had mining facilities to sup-
port an electronics production industry.
The planet is highly volcanic, with considerable
seismic activity and localized release of toxic
gasses, with a saline and caustic atmosphere.
Basic maintenance costs for May Outpost were
three times equivalent averages. It is also rather
warm, average daytime temperatures of 33 °C and
not dropping much lower at night. The year lasts
180 Earth days, and the day is 18 hours. At this
point in its cycle the planet should be approaching
the winter equinox.
That is May Outpost. It will be interesting to see
how accurate those 2100 reports are. Remember
you are exploring and seeking to understand
the current state of the colony and will offer
any humanitarian aid that may be required. If
a 3WE military authority still exists, you should
have little trouble re-incorporating them under
official authority. We will still need access to their
long data disc so we can assess their long-term
development, and I’m expecting the usual Colony
Potential Report: industrial output; trade oppor-
tunities; political set-up and stability; and any ad
hoc opportunities.
All the best, Solovetsky Island.”
C L U E S T O T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E
The PCs can learn the fourth clue of the campaign
(page 162) during this expedition, by exploring the
Engineer pyramid and deciphering the glyphs that
adorn the wall of the Shrine. They can also have the
first campaign clue (page 162) corroborated by
KOI-610.01
KOI-610.01 is an Earth-like volcanic planet, with daily
temperatures reaching 33 °C and not dropping much
lower at night. The air is breathable, but pockets of
toxic gas can emerge anywhere, along with the fre-
quent geysers and ground bursts. With so much toxic
gas and salt-blown particles in the air, corrosion is a
constant problem. For every Shift that a mechanical
device (including spaceships and pressure suits) is
exposed to the weather roll a Stress Die—on
it
malfunctions either immediately or when next used.
To repair it takes a HEAVY MACHINERY roll and a
Turn of work. The planet is severely tilted on its axis,
bringing extreme seasons in its 180-day year. When
the PCs arrive, it’s the winter equinox at May Out-
post, with equal hours of daylight and night and the
weather is stormy and wet.
The planetary map gives you all the details
you need for KOI-610.01 should your PCs want to
further explore or even colonize it, using the rules
in the Appendix: Building Your Own Better World
(page 275).
22 0
Warlord Zhāngjié—if asked he will say there is a band
of pirates called Gorham’s Marauders who attack ships
to wipe their navigation data, but they don’t dare raid
the Great Kĕnéng Cooperative.
SOLAR SYSTEM
& COLONY RECORD
KOI-610 System and KOI-610.01
M AY O U T P O S T
SURVEYED PLANET POSITION
PARENT STAR
Single
1
G7 Main Sequence
GAS GIANTS
ROCKY
PLANETSICE PLANETS
ASTEROID
BELTSRADIATION
11
1NONE
PLANET SIZEATMOSPHEREHYDRO-
SPHEREDAY LENGTHAXIAL TILT
12,500 KMBreath-
ableTemper-
ate Dry22 Hours35º
(severe
seasons)
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL
FEATUREORBITAL
PERIODPLANETARY
PERSONALITY
1GHotMultiple
fast
moving
moons180 daysForlorn
21 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
MAY OUTPOST’S LONG DATA DISC
May Outpost’s long data disc can be found in the
get the help he wants. He will be reluctant to give
Monitoring Center, on the basement level of the
it up as it will show his ruthlessness during the
CANC Intelligence HQ. Once Zhāngjié knows it’s
coup. He will expect immunity from prosecution
important to the PCs he will use it as leverage to
for his past deeds, and a great bargain, to do so.
KOI-610.01
SWEEPING PLAINS
OF GIANT GRASS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+0
MOUNTAINS WITH
IMMENSE WATERFALLS
ACTIVE VOLCANOES AND
LAVA FIELDS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
+1
ANCIENT EARTHQUAKE
CREVASSES
MAY OUTPOST
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
SEISMICALLY ACTIVE
MANY EARTHQUAKES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+0
THERMAL SPRINGS AND
STEAM VENTS
HUGE RIVERS AND
VAST RIVER DELTAS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
+1
KICKING OFF THE ACTION
As the PCs approach the planet, their scans reveal
the following: the planet is volatile with high levels of
volcanic gasses in the upper atmosphere; there’s lots
of radio chatter—the signal that a living settlement
still persists; and pockets of twinkling civilization link
together around a central town by a lake that shim-
mers with a bluey-white glow.
Then the comms unit crackles, and a message first
in Chinese, then English:
“Unidentified vessel, this is the Great Kĕnéng Coop-
erative Orbital Authority. Identify yourself and state
your destination and purpose. Be warned, any act
deemed aggressive, hostile, or non-conforming with
instructions will be met with relentless defensive force.
Respond.”
Unless the PCs say or do something to anger the
Orbital Authority, they will be instructed to land at
the Landing Strip. Landing requires a PILOT test with
a +1 modification, thanks to the support of the ground
crew. A failed roll means the ship has landed heavily,
taking D3 points of damage.
As the PCs make their approach, they see the
layout of the town, built up at the western end of
the briny lake. All roads lead away, snaking into the
distance where much smaller settlements can be seen.
On the north-east shore of the lake lies what must
have been an old settlement, now derelict and ruined.
It sits adjacent to a large cliff that forms the east end
of the lake. Part of the cliff has fallen away leaving
exposed an awe-inspiring relic, once buried beneath
the earth. It looks like a pyramid set into the rock, one
side of which has been sheared away by the landslide.
221G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
S H O R E PA R T Y : As the Solovetsky Island’s negotia-
tor, Lakota Monroe (page 157) insists she be allowed
to join the shore party. Once the UPP’s presence is
revealed she will take a very hard line with the Coop-
erative in negotiations, and cause Zhāngjié to lose
patience with her and the PCs.
O N T H E G R O U N D : Assuming the PCs comply
with these instructions to land they will be met by a
group of ten armed guards (page 171) under the
command of Captain Guanting. She will politely but
firmly invite them to a meeting with Warlord Zhāng-
jié, as they are clearly important visitors. Weapons
are not allowed. If they agree they will be escorted
in an open-topped personnel carrier to the War-
lord’s compound. As they rumble through the colony,
the PCs cannot fail to notice the frequent guard
checkpoints with five or six well-armed soldiers.
They can learn more with a group OBSERVATION roll:
ONE
: There are a lot of people in decent
clothing and looking well fed, no obvious signs of
poverty or destitution, and building work is com-
petent if not fancy. But few people are smiling,
while at the same time none are showing obvious
signs of unhappiness either. They seem docile.
TWO OR MORE
: They sense a seething under-
current of tension, a tangible hostility in the air.
T
T
MEETING THE WARLORD: Eventually, the PCs arrive
at the Warlord’s Compound where they are met by
Zhāngjié (page 145) and Brigadier Xìn Wŏ. Zhāng-
jié appears unarmed (he always has his two-shot
derringer in his boot) but Wŏ is carrying a UPP side-
arm gifted to her by Colonel Drubov, an MP-4043
Grach. This gun was not produced until after the
Isolation. If a PC is UPP, they will immediately recog-
nize it. Otherwise, a successful OBSERVATION roll will
notice the weapon as being in superb condition, two
ZHĀNGJIÉ’S AGENDA
The Warlord wants to guarantee his personal posi-
tion, strengthen the Cooperative with weapons
and support to crush the insurrection and acquire
the secrets of the pyramid all for himself. He feels
he is in a very strong position, now that both the
PCs and the UPP contingent are here and will play
22 2
identify it as a UPP-style weapon, while three
or more
will fully identify it. If Wŏ is questioned,
she will say it’s a treasured family heirloom from
before the Isolation. The PCs may make an opposed
OBSERVATION vs her MANIPULATION to spot the lie—if
she fails, she cannot hide her feeling of dishonor at
lying, but will not admit the lie.
Zhāngjié will ask the following questions:
Who are the PCs, where are they from and why
are they here?
What are they offering (he is particularly inter-
ested in weapons, ship parts and upgrades)?
He will explain there is an ongoing terrorist
problem. A small group of insurrectionists,
encouraged by the Union Mutual Society, are
making trouble for the peace-loving people of
the Cooperative. What help can the PCs offer to
resolve this?
He will invite the PCs to tour the town (with a
protective bodyguard of five soldiers (page
171) under Captain Guanting) as long as they
leave a negotiator (either a PC or Solovetsky
Island’s counselor and negotiator, Lakota Monroe)
with his people to further explore the future
relationship.
T
T
T
T
If the PCs ask about the pyramid Zhāngjié will
explain its history, say it is off-limits (unless explic-
itly authorized by him alone) and inquire as to why
the PCs asked.
If the PCs ask to meet the Union Mutual Society
they will be allowed to talk to the Speaker of the
Union, Stanley Sheppard, who can be found at the
Three Lions tavern in the town. They will not be
allowed to speak with him alone, of course, for their
protection.
them off against one another—although at this
stage he will not reveal the presence of the UPP
to the PCs. He will agree to adopt the authority of
the UN once the PCs have helped him with these
three objectives, although he’s happy to backslide
on the deal later on if it suits him.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
CAPTAIN G UANTIN G
Honorable and professional, Guanting is especially
loyal towards Brigadier Xìn Wŏ, as she fears Warlord
Zhāngjié’s brutal nature and arbitrary temper. She takes
her job seriously and will do everything in her power to
prevent harm coming to the PCs while they are under
her protection. She wants the insurrection to end, but
believes negotiation is the way to assure that, not
repression and violence.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Ranged
Combat 2, Observation 1, Command 1,
Manipulation 2, Mobility 2
TALENT: Bodyguard
GEAR: CANC Combat armor (Armor Rating 6) with
wrist-blade, AK-4047
B RIGADIER XÌN W ˘
Ŏ
O
Honorable, insightful and with a great sense of fair
play, Xìn Wŏ is Warlord Zhāngjié’s right hand. An
expert combat leader, she holds the loyalty of the
troops. Since the UPP arrived, she’s been having ever
greater reservations about them. Their methods have
no dignity or honor, something she quietly loathes. She
agrees with Zhāngjié that power through strength is
the best way to build a secure community, but it must
be honorable, even if she and the Warlord have not
always lived up to that ideal.
She wants to ensure power remains with the Coop-
erative, so they can negotiate the best deal for their
people from the newcomers, and not be strong-armed
by these UPP barbarians.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 6
SKILLS: Close Combat 3, Ranged
Combat 2, Observation 3, Comtech 2, Command 3,
Manipulation 2
SECOND IN COMMAND AND HEAD OF INTELLIGENCE
TALENT: Tough
GEAR: CANC Combat armor (Armor Rating 6) with
wrist-blade, MP-4043 Grach pistol
M AY O U T P O S T
May Outpost is built of stone and metal, crowded
buildings and narrow streets filled with subdued
people, keeping their heads down to avoid the interest
of the Warlord’s Guard.
WA R L O R D ’ S C O M P O U N D : Ringed by a 5-meter-
high stone wall with an imposing wrought iron gate,
the compound contains a luxurious palace with
gardens and pools as well as a garden atelier where
Zhāngjié holds court. There are always two or three
guards within a zone of the PCs.
B A R R A C K S : Housing 200 soldiers and their equip-
ment, training facilities and vehicles, the three build-
ings are ringed by a 3-meter-high wire fence.
YŎ U Y Ì S À I B A R R A C K S : Ostensibly built as
another barracks, everyone knows this houses the
underground prison of the Kĕnéng Cooperative. Sev-
eral hundred political prisoners are held here. A ballot
is held at every equinox to choose six of them as
sacrifices for the Xeno­morphs, two per night over the
three nights.
223G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
I N T E L L I G E N C E H Q : A three story tower housing
the CANC’s counter-insurgency teams, and where
the UPP scouts are based, it also contains the long
data disc for May Colony. Outside it stands the UPP’s
Mikoyan-Liu Ox Series 6×6 vehicle (page 68), first
built after the Isolation. It stands out against the
run-down vehicles of the CANC. If a PC is UPP, they
will immediately recognize it, otherwise, a successful
OBSERVATION roll will notice the vehicle’s condition,
identify it as a UPP vehicle, while three
or
two
more will fully identify it.
G A L L O W S : Set up on the beach, this wooden struc-
ture is used both to hang those considered criminals
by the CANC, and to chain up the sacrifices for the
Xeno­morphs. A wooden viewing platform is set up to
one side and a low metal barrier fences off the area.
G U A R D C H E C K P O I N T S : Each has a movable
metal fence that can block the road and is manned by
between three and six guards.
T
T
T
T
L A N D I N G S T R I P S : Open fields marked out with
landing lights, small hangars and re-fueling facilities.
Three Bison CM-88B Freighters are here, although two
are obviously not space-worthy. The UPP scout ship
has been maneuvered into an open hanger and cov-
ered in tarpaulin, in a fruitless attempt to keep it out of
view. While the UNCSS Solovetsky Island is here, it will
be guarded by five soldiers at all times.T
C O N T R O L T O W E R : Runs traffic control.A M P H I T H E AT E R : Bread and circuses, that’s what
keeps the people happy. Here they get both, with
frequent gladiatorial contests (between criminals with
the prize of freedom for the survivors) and sporting
events (that are often as bloody as the gladiator
bouts). Warlord Zhāngjié loves both.
U N I O N O F F I C E S : The Cooperative allows the
former 3WE people to belong to a workers’ union, to
make them feel better. However, the union holds no
power whatsoever, and those in the union realize that
all too clearly.
T H R E E L I O N S P U B : The covert center of resis-
tance in the colony. The pub is both a throwback to
old British pubs of Earth, as well as Japanese izakaya,
and merges both the mahogany and hardwood floor
feel with the red lantern vibe of the Japanese sake
shop. It is always busy.
Stanley Sheppard runs his resistance network
from here. If the PCs come searching for him after
the event The Insurrectionist’s Message (page
230), they will see the young woman who passed
the note, and she will direct them to Sheppard. If
224
they come with their guards, Sheppard will say he’d
rather not be overheard while talking about Union
business. The PCs can persuade Guanting to give
them a few minutes with a MANIPULATION roll with
, or two
if they have been particularly
three
friendly and honorable towards her up to now. Once
they get to talk in private Sheppard will:
Tell them about the history of the CANC coup and
the war but leave out the incriminating tales of the
3WE’s own atrocities.
Tell them that the resistance exists to overthrow the
CANC, with old 3WE Royal Marine partisans waiting
to liberate the people.
Ask for their help through materiel support, polit-
ical support, the removal of Zhāngjié or outright
military backing. He will hint that Brigadier Wŏ
may be more honorable and reasonable—if the PCs
are interested in helping, he will gently suggest
they could stop the civil war by killing Zhāngjié
themselves.
He can cause much disturbance across the city, to
keep the CANC guards busy, if that helps.
He will tell them of the UPP visitors.
H U Á N G H Ò U S Q U A R E : A huge plaza where the
Warlord holds rallies and parades.
Z U Ì H Ă O D E D I S T R I C T : The ruling elite of the
old CANC live here, in finely architectured homes
and villas.
K Ā I X Ī N D E R É N F I E L D S : Playing fields and
parks for recreation.
X I Á N H Ú : The lake is highly salty and when the
winds pick up during the winter salt “sculptures” are
often formed around the edge and in the shallows.
The shallows themselves are no deeper than a meter,
although the lake is 200 meters deep at its center. The
water has flooded into the lower levels of the Engineer
pyramid through the parts smashed by the rockfall,
and there is an underwater tunnel into the Cistern,
used by the XX121LV to get in and out.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
M AY O UTPOST
MAP LEGEND
● GUARD CHECKPOINT
LANDING
STRIPS
EXECUTION ALLEY
CONTROL
TOWER
X Ī N TÀIWÙSHÌ HÉ
RIVER
RUINED OLD
TOWN
LANDING
STRIPS
Y˘UYISÀI
Ŏ UYISÀI
O
BARRACKS
OLD ROYAL
MARINE BUNKER
WAREHOUSES
SHALLOWS
THREE
LIONS
PUB
ZUÌ HĂ
H ĂO DE
DISTRICT
UNION
HUÁNGHÒU
OFFICE
SQUARE
PYRAMID
INTELLIGENCE
HQ
BARRACKS
GALLOWS
WARLORD
COMPOUND
X I Á N H U
L A K E
AMPHITHEATRE
INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICT
RESIDENTIAL
BEACH
FRONT
SHALLOWS
KĀ IX
IXĪĪ N DE RÉN
FIELDS
WATER
PLANT
X Ī N CHÁNGJIĀ
CHÁNGJI Ā NG
RIVER
XĪN
X
Ī N SĀ
S
SĀI
Ā I WĒ
W
WĒN
ĒN
RIVER
CHURCH
PLATFORM 2
1 KM
R I V E R S : Three rivers flow out of Xián Hú: the Xīn
Tàiwùshì Hé (“New Thames”), the Xīn Sāi Wēn (“New
Severn”) and Xīn Chángjiāng (“New Yangtze”). Of
these, only the Xīn Tàiwùshì Hé can be crossed easily
without a bridge. The other rivers are so swift that
a MOBILITY roll is needed. If the roll is failed, the
PC is swept away by the current and needs another
MOBILITY check each Round, as a fast action, to avoid
drowning.
B E A C H F R O N T : A nice place to spend a sunny day
with the kids.
WAT E R P L A N T : A desalination plant of stacks,
pipes, valves, and towers, that provides all the clean
water for the nearby town.
WA R E H O U S E S : Piled high with useful resources:
minerals, ore, raw materials, surplus food, construction
equipment, emergency settlement kits.
225G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
TH R EE LIO N S P U B
2×2 METERS
TO
STAIRCASE
SAKE
BAR
SURVEILLANCE
ROOM
BAR
STORES
STORES
ATRIUM
SPIRAL
STAIRS
OFFICE
RESTROOM
BAR
TO
STAIRCASE
ALL WINDOWS
LOOKING DOWN
TO PUB GROUND
FLOOR
ALL WINDOWS
LOOKING OUT
TO STREET
G R O U N D
F L O O R
U P P E R
F L O O R
STAN LEY S H EP PARD
Intrepid, eager but ruthless, Sheppard is the Speaker
for the Union Mutual Society, and covertly a leader of
the 3WE insurrectionists. He’s not an unreasonable
man, and while he would admit that general living stan-
dards under Zhāngjié have improved, he cannot forget
at what cost—kidnappings, murder, and sacrifices.
His network knows of the UPP visitors (he hasn’t heard
the term “UPP” and wouldn’t understand it if he did).
Despite the risk to himself he is desperate to meet the
PCs and get their help (see the events The Insurrection-
ist’s Message and The Raid).
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Ranged Combat 2,
Stamina 2, Observation 3, Command 3
TALENT: Subdue, Hard Hitter
GEAR: None
22 61 0 .
R U I N E D O L D T O W N : Formerly the site of the
Royal Marines garrison and the town that grew around
it, the entire settlement was destroyed during the war
with the CANC. Now it is a dusty, salty, desolate ruin.
E X E C U T I O N A L L E Y : The site where the last of
the marines, those who surrendered, were lined up
and executed. Their desiccated bodies lie where they
fell, deliberately left as a reminder of Warlord Zhāng-
jié’s brutality. +1 STRESS LEVEL to those witnessing
the scene.
E X P E D I T I O N S
O L D R OYA L M A R I N E B U N K E R : The entrance is
through a disused sewage overflow pipe in the south-
east of town. If it is being searched for a successful
OBSERVATION roll will find it, with a +3 modification if
the PCs have been given directions to find it. A ladder
goes down 30 meters to a small complex of five rooms
off a central chamber. There is no power, but the air
is good and it is warm. Captain Snell and five marines
are here—they will defend themselves unless the PCs
make it clear they are friends.
CAPTAIN HAN NAH S N ELL
Resilient, obsessive, with only one thing to live for—to
take revenge against Warlord Zhāngjié. Ten years ago,
when the defeat of the remaining marines was inevita-
ble, Snell’s commanding officer ordered her to take her
unit and flee, to set up as partisans and continue the
fight. This she did with a heavy heart. Since then, the
16 surviving marines under her command have been a
thorn in the side of the CANC, but never able to force
an uprising, even with the resistance network.
She knows some important visitors have arrived (the
UPP scouts) and is planning a raid to assassinate them.
For now, she has returned to the old Royal Marine
bunker in the Old Town, to await intelligence from
Sheppard and the resistance.
STRENGTH 2, AGILITY 4, WITS 5, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 2
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Ranged Combat 3,
Stamina 2, Observation 2, Command 3, Mobility 5
TALENT: Weapon Specialist (sniper)
ROYAL MARINES
GEAR: Battered armor (Armor Rating 4), RMC
scope rifle (equivalent to the M42A), RMC SA8082
(equivalent to M41A Pulse Rifle), sword
THE PYRAMID
Hidden for centuries, the pyramid still has enough
residual power to illuminate its interior with an eerie
blue glow that seems to come from nowhere, just
bright enough to see, but not bright enough to banish
the shadows. The air inside is salty, and sound echoes
a very long way. The Main Level is flooded by the lake
to a depth of 1 meter, and the Cistern, with the excep-
tion of the rear vestibule and the Hive, is submerged.
227G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
E N T R A N C E : A low and wide opening narrows as it
goes deeper, eventually revealing the deep shaft and
the down ramp. The Shaft goes directly to the Shrine,
200 meters below, but its walls are sheer. Any attempt
to climb down brings a −2 modification to MOBILITY
rolls, and one roll is needed for each 100 meters
traversed, which also takes one Turn. The down ramp
is wide enough to take a vehicle as large as a Daihotai
8×8 and spirals down to the Shrine.
S H R I N E : The Shrine is flooded to 1 meter deep. The
path that leads down to the Cistern is not immediately
visible, requiring an OBSERVATION roll to spot it (or
the PCs might stumble across it). On either side of the
Shrine are Engineer murals, covered in glyphs—the
fourth campaign clue (page 162). The glyphs can be
recorded and deciphered, with an OBSERVATION roll
with a –1 modification, otherwise DA/UT/UR on the
UNCSS Solovetsky Island can help.
C AV E R N O U S C H A M B E R S : One of the four cav-
ernous chambers was damaged by the earthquake and
landslide that revealed the pyramid in the first place
and is open and exposed to the waters of the lake.
All are flooded. They are huge, sounds echoing off
vaulted ceilings to roll around the space.
O V O I D C H A M B E R S : Nineteen of these chambers
are intact. However, two were damaged by the earth-
quake and landslide that revealed the pyramid in the
first place and are open and exposed to the waters of
the lake. All these chambers are flooded to 1m depth.
Roll D6 on the table below when the PCs explore each
chamber.
T H E C I S T E R N : An enormous open chamber, 500
meters across, and completely submerged. Visibility is
down to LONG range with a flashlight, MEDIUM range
without. At the western end, there is a runoff tunnel
that leads out into Xián Hú. At the eastern end, there is
a tunnel that leads upwards towards a source of blue
light that the PCs can make out through the gloom. It
leads the PCs into the vestibule and the hive.
T H E H I V E : The tunnel leads up into a large chamber
with a pocket of trapped air. It’s breathable. In the
center of the chamber is a raised dais—the center of the
new hive. The Xeno­morphs have brought their victims
here and are turning them into Ovomorphs, while they
protect the Royal Egg at the center, just waiting for the
right time to rear the Queen. There are two XX121LV
Xeno­morphs here, currently in PASSIVE mode but if
disturbed they will attack and add the PCs to their
hive—read The Nascent Hive sidebar to your players.
EXPLORING THE OVOID CHAMBERS
D6EVENT
1–2:Nothing here.
3:Strange shadows and noises—all PCs roll OBSERVATION , any who succeed are sure they saw something but
can’t pinpoint what. They gain +1 STRESS LEVEL .
4:A random PC kicks something under the water. If they check they see it’s a dead body inside a compression
suit that looks like it’s been vacuum-packed, with all the air sucked from it. They must make a Panic Roll.
5:2D6 ampules (Heavy items) bob about in the water. They are all open and empty, except one which is
sealed. Opening it requires the facilities of a medbay or laboratory, and a COMTECH roll. It contains three
tiny cups, the contents of which start to swirl if touched. If this is touched or consumed it may have an
effect on the PC. Roll D6:
1–3: Nothing happens, the sample is inert.
4: The PC feels weird and gains +1 STRESS LEVEL .
5: The PC suffers a convulsion as the sample makes changes to their body—the PC suffers an immediate
critical injury as a result of the transformation, as the body part is permanently changed. The effects of
the injury are permanent and cannot be healed.
6: The PC feels weird and gains +1 STRESS LEVEL and must make a Sickness Roll against Virulence 6 or be
infected as a Stage I Abomination (page 123).
T
T
T
T
6:
22 8
A prowling XX121LV Xeno­morph (page 138) is here. The PCs see a strange glowing light under the sur-
face that suddenly winks out, followed by a sudden splash on the surface as something underneath moves
quickly. Enter stealth mode.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TH E PYRA MID
OVOID
CHAMBERS
40×40 METERS
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBER
SHRINE
DOWN TO
CISTERN
FROM
DOWNRAMP
DEEP
SHAFT
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBER
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBER
TH E PYRA MID P RO FILE
ENTRANCE
DEEP SHAFT
DOWNRAMP
HILLSIDE
COLLAPSED
CLIFF
SHRINE
XIAN HU LAKE
MAIN LEVEL
CISTERN
200 METERS
229G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE NASCENT HIVE
The dais is 30 meters wide, a dull metallic but
stone-like material crisscrossed with electric blue
slashes, giving off an intensely bright light. Sitting
atop this is a grisly sight. What appears to be the
deformed bodies of people, maybe as many as 50,
lie in concentric circles. They appear to be losing
limbs as they are impossibly absorbed back into
their growing flesh, skin thickening, some more
deformed than others. In the center of all this
twisted humanity rests a large leathery object, in
pride of place, with two of those glowing devils,
just like those that arose from the water to snatch
the poor sacrificial victims, almost cuddled
around it. All is quiet. All appears dormant and
dead, until one of the mutating people moves
and lets out a deep and hopeless groan. Everyone
gains +1 STRESS LEVEL .
EVENTS
T H E I N S U R R E C T I O N I S T ’ S M E S S A G E : Stanley
Sheppard needs to get a message to the PCs and
arranges a diversion. As the PCs travel in the town,
they see two vehicles crash and suddenly an argument
breaks out. Within seconds, a shouting crowd has
gathered, and everyone is being buffeted. The PCs’
guards aggressively try to keep the people away, but
in the crush a random PC suddenly feels a note thrust
into their hand and has a moment’s eye contact with a
young woman before she disappears into the throng.
The note says: “Things are not as they seem. You may
be in danger. Find me at the Three Lions. Don’t bring
your guards.” If the PCs follow this up, they will find
Sheppard waiting for them.
A D R E A D F U L S A C R I F I C E : Early in the expedi-
tion, the PCs will be approached by Captain Guanting,
who tells them the Warlord requests their presence at
a special event. They are escorted to the Gallows and
directed to a small platform 30 meters from the water,
to join Zhāngjié and Wŏ. From here they can observe
what Zhāngjié calls “a special ritual”. A crowd gathers
along a low metal fence to watch. Shortly afterwards,
a Daihotai 8×8 appears, a man and a woman are
dragged out by four soldiers and chained to the posts
near the lake’s edge. Zhāngjié explains this is the first
of three days of sacrifice and these criminals drew the
short straws.
Unless the PCs take some action, they will see the
water at the shore’s edge glow, and two luminous
XX121LV Xeno­morphs (page 138) crawl from the
lake. The victims beg to be reprieved, and some in the
crowd shout for mercy. The PCs gain +1 STRESS LEVEL .
Unless the PCs intervene, the victims will be torn from
their chains and carried away into the water. If they
do intervene, the Xeno­morphs will fight back, but will
retreat rather than fight to the death. The crowd will
23 0
panic and guards will surround Zhāngjié to protect
him. Zhāngjié will command them to stop, Wŏ will
quietly approve, but the guards won’t intervene until
the action is over. If the PCs disobey him, Zhāngjié
will be furious, storming off with his guards, and their
relationship will be badly damaged. At your discretion
this can trigger the event Aggressive Negotiations.
S H A K E M E A L L N I G H T L O N G : An earthquake
suddenly strikes, and the world jags back and forth, up
and down. Everyone must make a MOBILITY roll or fall
prone, and then a MOBILITY roll is required to stand
again. They may take damage from falling debris. The
quake lasts D6 Rounds and may provide excellent
cover for the PCs to slip away from their guards.
T H E AT TA C K : As the PCs travel in the town, a group
of five insurrectionists (page 171) launch an attack
against a roadblock. Two CANC guards are gunned
down without a chance, and the other three are hit
but try to fight back. The PCs are protected by two of
their guards, who try to hustle them into cover, while
Guanting and the other three join the fight against the
insurrectionists. The PCs can help the CANC or use
this as a chance to slip away from their guards.
T H E R A I D : Play this event if the PCs have managed
to slip away from their guards to see the resistance
or Royal Marines. A young man acting as a lookout
rushes into their meeting, breathless, and gasps: “The
guards are coming!” Three Rounds later, eight Cooper-
ative soldiers (page 171) carrying shock sticks and
modern AK-4047s burst into the scene from all sides
and try to arrest everyone. If the PCs are arrested, they
are taken before Zhāngjié and interrogated over their
behavior (see the event Aggressive Negotiations).1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
O L D S M O K E Y : The shallows of Xián Hú are rife with
hot springs. A geyser builds near the PCs. They see a
sudden bubbling and frothing of the surface, and one
Round later a huge stream of steaming water bursts
into the air, that lasts for three Rounds. Anyone within
SHORT range takes an eight Base Dice attack, Damage
1, armor applies. Up to MEDIUM range, all are soaked
with hot water.pyramid for Zhāngjié. The PCs either witness them
leaving in their Ox, or Sheppard gets a message to
them, via one of his resistance fighters, that they
have gone. If the PCs go after them, they will find
them in the pyramid for a showdown at a moment
best suited to increase the tension. If they don’t,
only Drubov returns, two Shifts later, wounded and
shell-shocked.
R O T T E N E G G S : A pocket of sulfur dioxide bursts
from the ground and the air in the PCs’ zone is
suddenly saturated with it. They cannot mistake the
smell. Anyone breathing it will immediately suffer
from Extreme hypoxia (page 91). The pocket will
disperse in D6 Rounds in the open but will persist for
D6 Turns in an enclosed space.S A B O TA G E : A huge explosion rocks the ground and
to the southeast they can see billowing balls of flame,
orange whipped through with black smoke and debris.
The water plant has been destroyed by Captain Snell
and her partisans. Gunfire can be heard, as the guards
on the Xīn Sāi Wēn river rush to the scene, only to be
killed. The bridge across the river is now unguarded,
and in two days the clean water supply to the town
will dry up.
A G G R E S S I V E N E G O T I AT I O N S : If the PCs
anger Zhāngjié, he will insist they make reparations (to
advance Zhāngjié’s objectives). He will keep Lakota
Monroe at his compound for her safety and so negotia-
tions can progress with alacrity, but she is really a pris-
oner for the PCs’ good behavior. The PCs will see that
Brigadier Wŏ disapproves and advises Zhāngjié to treat
Monroe as the honored guest she is. Zhāngjié will use
this as leverage to get the PCs to help, either to capture
the resistance fighters, or to explore the pyramid.
I P R E D I C T A R I O T : All day people have been
gathering in Huánghòu Square. Suddenly, as if on
a command, they start to riot, surging through the
streets of the Zuì Hăo De District towards the War-
lord’s Compound, smashing and destroying as they go.
CANC soldiers pour from the barracks in an attempt
to stop the rioting, but the whole area descends into
chaos. The PCs witness a group capture three of
the colony “elite,” and push them into an alley. The
three will be lynched before the PCs’ eyes unless they
intervene.
T H E U P P G O F O R T H E P R I Z E : Colonel
Drubov and his squad leave the town to explore the
LIEUTENANT CO LO N EL VICTO R D R U BOV
UPP COSMOS EXPLORATION CORPS
Honorable, ambitious but with a powerful sense of
self-preservation, Drubov has found dealing with
Zhāngjié difficult—not least because Drubov isn’t a
politician and Zhāngjié, as a former Colonel and now
warlord, thinks he outranks him. And this despite the
gifts of modern armor and weapons. Drubov is desper-
ate to get this outpost to sign on the dotted line as a
member of the UPP before the PCs arrive. If he and his
squad of five troopers and one Davydovich android
have to investigate the pyramid as Zhāngjié’s price,
then so be it. If not, Drubov is not above a palace
coup, killing the warlord and replacing him with his
second in command, Wŏ.
If the PCs save Drubov’s life in the pyramid, he will
feel a strong sense of obligation to them. He will tell
them to beware, as all is not as it seems on the Great
Mother Mission. He won’t say any more unless the PCs
succeed at a MANIPULATION roll, in which case he will
add that some colonists may be more than they seem
(referring to the SOF troops in hypersleep aboard the
UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá).
). He will say no more after that.
STRENGTH 5, AGILITY 4, WITS 3, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 5
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Ranged Combat 3,
Stamina 2, Observation 2, Command 3, Mobility 2
TALENT: Overkill, Second Wind
GEAR: UPP 6B90 Armor (Armor Rating 6), AK-4047,
MP-4043 Grach pistol, combat knife
231G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
FINALE
Tensions come to a head and the insurrectionists start
a vicious uprising. The Royal Marine partisans launch
an attack on the Intelligence HQ, while elsewhere
across the city bands of resistance fighters arm them-
selves and take the fight to the CANC.
Zhāngjié will call the troops out and issue an order
that anyone on the streets must be shot on sight. Wŏ
is very worried that this will bring about a needless
bloodbath and tries to convince Zhāngjié that if they
can repel the attack on the Intelligence HQ this will
be enough to quell the uprising, and then they can
negotiate a settlement. Zhāngjié will see this as a sign
of weakness and disloyalty. How this confrontation
plays out should be down to the PCs’ actions and who
they support.
The PCs have several options: they can join the
fight on the CANC’s side, supporting either Zhāngjié’s
or Wŏ’s approach; they can join the fight on the side
of the insurrectionists; they can attempt to bring calm,
stop the fighting, and broker a peace; or they can get
the hell out of there until the carnage dies down. How
the uprising pans out, and who wins, is up to you as
GM, but obviously the PCs’ actions should influence
the outcome.
EPILOGUE
Warlord Zhāngjié or Brigadier Wŏ may offer the PCs
a reward if they would keep the Cooperative’s best
interests at heart when they return to the Great Mother
Mission, or in return for delivering supplies that the UN
won’t—like weapons. Governor Abantu could propose
a mission to wipe out the Xeno­morph hive, but the
PCs are offered a job by a corporate interest—get in
and get a specimen before the Governor has them all
exterminated. ■
METAPUZZLE CLUE #4—TRANSLATION OF THE ENGINEER HIEROGLYPH IN THE PYRAMID
“AND THAT ONE CREATION—ALONGSIDE ALL OTHER MARVELS—SHALL STAND APART—AS OUR MASTERPIECE TO
ECLIPSE ALL MASTERPIECES—”
“BAR ONE—NOTWITHSTANDING THE GROTESQUE FEATS UPON WHICH WE HAVE SHOWERED OUR BRILLIANCE—”
“LISTEN TO ME—FOR IN ITS SINGULAR SUBSTANCE THE BEHEMOTH HOLDS ITS OWN SOLEMNITY—A RING BUT
NOT A RING—A CYLINDER BUT NOT A CYLINDER—TO OCCUPY ITS PLACE BUT NOT OCCUPY IT—TO INHABIT A
PLACE AND YET INHABIT ANOTHER—TO STEP THROUGH AND ACHIEVE THAT TRAVERSE—TO JOURNEY WHERE WE
WILL—TO JOURNEY AT A WHIM—TO JOURNEY AGAINST THE PROTEST OF CREATION—THIS LYCHGATE IS THE
MARVEL OF MARVELS—”
“EXCEPT THAT WHICH ELUDES US EVEN NOW—”
23 21 0 .
5 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
A G A I N S T A S E A
O F T R O U B L E S
“It is in our nature to explore, to reach out into the unknown.
The only true failure would be not to explore at all.”
—ERNEST SHACKLETON
The PCs are ordered to search for the missing ship
UNCSS Typhoon, sent to survey two moons of the
gas giant KOI-2702.07, called Azizo and Arzu. They
intercept the Typhoon dead in space, its crew missing
after the Perfected tried to capture it. They trace its
path back to the two moons, to find one swamped by
the Perfected’s living Proto-Hive. They must explore a
derelict Engineer Juggernaut and confront the Per-
fected, to save the Typhoon’s crew, and escape alive
to raise the alarm.
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
The UNCSS Typhoon, under Captain Leland Barton,
was ordered to the KOI-2702 system, to survey the
moons of the seventh planet, a gas giant designated
KOI-2702.07, called Palmyra. Amongst the dozens
of tiny, rocky moons Palmyra has two of note—Azizo
and Arzu. Azizo is a small watery world, so far
untouched by any hands. Arzu, however, was an
Engineer outpost attacked by the Perfected many
thousands of years ago. Preferring death to infection,
many Engineers committed suicide. But some were
too late and became Perfected themselves.
Millennia passed, and the Perfected infection, the
Proto-Hive, on Arzu slowly spread across the planet
while the Perfected themselves slumbered—until
the Typhoon arrived and disturbed them. Too late
did Barton and his crew realize what was hap-
pening. Their ship was infected by the Proto-Hive
even as it fled. All the crew bar one escaped in the
two lifeboats, one—with Captain Barton and five
crew—launching quickly and falling back to Arzu, the
other—with three crew, including Barton’s wife, Anne
Bowers—launching later, and managing to reach
Azizo before it crashed.
The one crew member who was left aboard the
Typhoon, Alice Dudgeon (the sister of the UNCSS
Solovetsky Island’s pilot, Andi Dudgeon), could not
let the Typhoon fall into the hands of these monsters.
She overloaded the reactor and flooded the ship
with radiation, killing the Perfected and Children of
the Two Divines, and sacrificing herself. However,
the radiation only fed the growing Proto-Hive that
spread through the ship, and warped the positronic
brains of the vessel’s Working Joe androids, who are
now hostile.
On Azizo, three crew survived the crash, and await
rescue. On Arzu, however, the lifeboat with Captain
Barton and the other survivors was found by the
Perfected. While some resisted—two of whom were
killed by the Perfected—Barton was infected and
became one of them, a Stage I Abomination Patho-
gen Carrier (page 123). They were taken to the
Engineer Juggernaut, the Perfected’s base on Arzu.
Having failed in the attempt to capture the Typhoon,
they send a distress beacon from the lifeboat, hoping
to draw another ship to them, and lay the trail to the
Lychgate, the honey trap that will secure their pas-
sage to the Middle Heavens.
233G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
The PCs receive an unscheduled video call from
Gaius aboard UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
“I’m sad to report that we have lost contact with
your sister ship, UNCSS Typhoon, under Captain
Leland Barton. They had been ordered to survey
KOI-2702.07, a gas giant with two moons possibly
suitable for colonization. I am sending a Throop
rescue ship but you are the closest vessel by sev-
eral days. Your orders are to proceed there imme-
diately, find and assist the Typhoon and her crew
should they need help, then complete the surveys
of the two moons. I assume you understand?
The moons are called Azizo and Arzu. From the
preliminary scans Azizo is a sub-Earth sized planet,
probably low G, with significant surface water.
Arzu on the other hand is a super-Earth, likely to
have high G and seems much drier. Colonization
recommendations for both, please.
Good luck Solovetsky Island, and give my
regards to Captain Barton when you find him.”
C L U E S T O T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E
The PCs can learn the fifth campaign clue during
this expedition, by reaching the Navigator Orrery on
the Engineer Juggernaut and witnessing the orrery
display.
KICKING OFF THE ACTION
The action starts with the PCs heading in the direction
of KOI-2702. As soon as they drop out of FTL, they
detect the transponder of the UNCSS Typhoon. It
has a minimal level of power, but is drifting, both its
lifeboats are missing, and it is emitting Weak radiation.
Any attempt to communicate is met with silence.
As a Magellan-class J SEV, the layout of the Typhoon is
identical to that of the Solovetsky Island (page 153).
The Typhoon’s crew are all fitted with Personal Data
Transmitters (PDTs). A successful COMTECH roll will
only detect Alice Dudgeon’s tracker on board, and her
life signs are very weak.
S H O R E PA R T Y : The ship’s pilot, Andi Dudgeon,
insists he joins as Alice Dudgeon is his younger
sister—he is distraught and desperate to save her. As
the expedition progresses, he will have a burning
desire for vengeance against those who attacked his
sister. As the Typhoon is drifting, Davor Koblenz, the
Solovetsky Island’s mechanic (page 159), suggests
he also should join the boarding party.
UNCSS TYPHOON
The Typhoon’s DA/UT/UR has been destroyed by the
radiation, along with many other systems, although
the basics of life support and emergency power still
work. The ship’s Working Joes (page 172), nick-
named Jake and Elwood by the crew, have suffered
severe damage to their programming. They are now
23 4
intensely protective of their ship and hostile to anyone
that boards it—see the event Don’t Ignore the Joes.
The residual radioactive effects can be felt as Weak
radiation (page 110 of the core rulebook) on board
the ship.1 0 .
E N G I N E CO N T R O L A N D T H E R E AC TO R :
The doors to this area have been sealed shut from
the inside, by Alice Dudgeon, and require a HEAVY
MACHINERY roll and a Turn of work to open. If this
fails, they can use a breaching charge from the
Solovetsky Island’s stores to blow it open. The reac-
tor is active but not running at full capacity, and its
radiation protections have been deactivated. These
can be restored with a HEAVY MACHINERY roll and
a Shift of work. Any attempt to fire up the ship’s
engines before then increases the radiation released
to Strong radiation, and use of FTL brings Extreme
radiation.
Alice Dudgeon is here, unconscious. She is
scorched and withered, and very close to death.
When the PCs find her, she needs to be stabilized
with a MEDICAL AID roll with a −2 modification, or she
will die. If this fails, her only chance is to get to the
medbay aboard the Solovetsky Island within one Turn.
To increase the tension of this race to save her life,
Andi Dudgeon will get angry or break down during
the rescue.
The engineering log shows that Dudgeon deliber-
ately removed the safety protocols for the Typhoon’s
reactor and flooded the ship with Extreme radiation
for one Turn.
E X P E D I T I O N S
B R I D G E : There are two Perfected (see the sidebar
The Dead Perfected), and five devotees here, all killed
by intense radiation sickness. They had been trying to
access the nav computer when they died. The scene is
grim, and all seeing it gain +1 STRESS LEVEL .
A check of the Typhoon’s last log entry shows the
ship arrived safely in the KOI-2702 system, proceeded
to survey the gas giant Palmyra and her moons before
inserting into orbit around Arzu. A COMTECH roll will
allow the PCs to see that the ship’s trajectory is a
straight line away from the gas giant.
D E C K C : The Proto-Hive (page 129) has grown
such that it has covered all of Deck C, with a Pro-
to-Hive Node (page 130) in every zone. Its tendrils
are working their way to Deck B, entwining around
the mesh walkways that are above, and look down
into, the cargo bay on Deck C. While the Nodes and
tendrils could be burned away using an incinerator,
the Proto-Hive has already merged with the ship
at the molecular level. The PCs will have to brave
the Proto-Hive and its Nodes if they want to access
this deck.
E Q U I P M E N T S T O R E S : The Typhoon has the same
stores aboard, in its various storage rooms, as the
Solovetsky Island. These can be found by the PCs, at
your discretion.
THE DEAD PERFECTED
Despite the scars of the intense radiation sick-
ness that killed them, the genderless Perfected
appear serene and majestic, their lithe forms a
little too long, their bodies just a little out of
proportion. Their silver-gray skin lies taught overa biomechanical series of tube-like bulges and
protrusions, almost an extra dark skeleton. If the
PCs choose to autopsy either of them, they will
find their anatomy is nothing like that of a human,
and seems random and disordered.
THE DOOMED TYPHOON
Alice Dudgeon used the reactor’s radiation to
kill the Perfected that boarded the ship, and the
Children of the Two Divines who came with them,
before they could extract the navigation data for
the Middle Heavens from the Typhoon’s computer.
However, while this killed these enemies, it only
nourished the living Proto-Hive that infected theship. The entire ship will become a Proto-Hive
within two Shifts, unless the PCs stop it by over-
loading the reactor with a HEAVY MACHINERY roll
and self-destructing the Typhoon (which would
happen one Turn later), but Jake and Elwood, the
ship’s Working Joes (page 172) will try to pre-
vent this.
235G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
T H E T WO M O O N S O F PA L M Y R A
A Z I Z O : Azizo is a watery world of great seas and
lakes, with a scattering of island archipelagos. Vol-
canically active, frequent eruptions pump a fine dust
of iron oxide into the air, giving the high atmosphere
a red, hazy tinge. The planet is cool—temperatures
never rise much above 12 °C or below 5 °C, except at
the poles. The gravity is 0.5G, causing gravity dys-
praxia (page 91).hovers just above freezing, except at the poles where
it falls much lower. Gravity is double that of Earth—the
PCs may suffer from gravity dyspraxia (page 91).
As these planets are moons of a gas giant their day
length is eccentric. The reflection from Palmyra illu-
minates the moons as well as the red glow from their
giant star. For half their orbital periods the moons
never get darker than twilight.
A R Z U : Arzu is a cold and heavy super-Earth, with a
dense atmosphere and little liquid water on its surface.
Mountainous and riven with crevasses and canyons, it
presents a challenging environment. The temperatureA R R I VA L : When the PCs arrive in the vicinity of Pal-
myra, they can detect the distress signal from Lifeboat
One, coming from the northern hemisphere of Azizo.
AZIZO
Azizo is a pristine planet, an excellent candidate
for colonization, should the PCs wish to explore
this option.
The lifeboat has landed in the northern hemi-
sphere (Northern Hemisphere West on the planet
map), and the PCs can home in on it. They can
detect the PDT traces of the remaining crew with
a COMTECH roll:
Security Officer Anne Bowers—alive, the wife of
Captain Leland Barton
Pilot Anka Karsen—alive, but weak life signs
ICC Inspector David Gideon—alive, but weak
life signs
T
T
T
Attempts to communicate will raise Bowers. She
explains that Karsen and Gideon were severely
injured in the crash and are both sedated to
keep them stable. They have landed in a shallow
archipelago of a vast sea, with thousands of tiny
islands and lagoons, and have been steadily sur-
rounded by slow-moving plant life that is infested
with huge insects that are highly aggressive if
disturbed. They are trapped.
L A N D FA L L : The closest island big enough to
land the ship is 15 km from the lifeboat, but the PCs
have amphibious Daihotai 8×8 tractors aboard the
Solovetsky Island to cover the distance. Landing is
difficult, with a −1 modification to the PILOTING roll.
A failed roll causes D3 Damage.
23 6
SOLAR SYSTEM
& COLONY RECORD
KOI-2702 System and KOI-2702.07
SURVEYED PLANET POSITION
PARENT STAR
Single
7
Red Super Giant
GAS GIANTS
4
ROCKY
PLANETS
ICE PLANETS
1
3
ASTEROID
BELTSRADIATION
NONENONE
AZIZO
PLANET SIZEATMOSPHEREHYDRO-
SPHEREDAY LENGTHAXIAL TILT
7,000 KMBreath-
ableWet
World4 HoursNone
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL
FEATUREORBITAL
PERIODPLANETARY
PERSONALITY
0.5GTemperateDust
laden
sky13 daysWelcom-
ing1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
KOI-2702.07
-AZIZO
HUGE IMPACT CRATERS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
LIFEBOAT DISTRESS BEACON
RIVEN WITH CAVE SYSTEMS
AND SINKHOLES
VOLCANIC ISLAND CHAINS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
EXTENSIVE SALT FLATS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+0
DENSE SEAWEED TEEMING
WITH FISH-LIKE CREATURES
VAST OCEANS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
+2
DEEP SEAS, SEISMICALLY ACTIVE WITH
MANY EARTHQUAKES AND TSUNAMI
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
L I F E B OAT O N E
The lifeboat is battered but has a full complement of
emergency supplies.
B I O L A B : Karsen and Gideon are in MedPods, keep-
ing them alive after their serious injuries from the
fight aboard the Typhoon and the crash landing. Once
removed from the MedPods they will need to be sta-
bilized with a MEDICAL AID roll to evacuate them from
the lifeboat. If this fails they will die unless they can
get to the Solovetsky Island’s medbay within one Turn.
THE SWARMS OF AZIZO
The Swarms of Azizo are not immediately hostile,
although an individual insect can be a nasty
pest. A single insect attacks with three Base Dice,
Damage 1 (armor piercing), Speed 1, Health 1. A
PC’s CLOSE COMBAT attack that misses an insect
T H E I N S E C T S WA R M : The lifeboat is surrounded
by a four-zone Swarm, Health 20 (page 317 of the
core rulebook). However, this Swarm will only attack
as a swarm if provoked, by making a big disturbance,
driving a tractor through it, or attacking it with fire or
explosives. If a PC tries to walk through the infested
plants they must make a MOBILITY roll per zone, with
a −1 modification for the bad footing. If the roll is failed,
the PC disturbs D3 insects that attack. If the PC panics
and scores a result of 11 or more, their panic causes a full
swarm attack. Draw initiative.
may provoke more insects into attacking. Roll a
Stress Die—on
D3 more wasps join the attack.
If a weapon is fired, or a PC gets six or more
insects attacking them at any one time, a full
Swarm response is provoked.
237G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
LIFEB OAT
SHOWERS/
HEAD
2×2 METERS
OBSERVATION
ROOM
THRUSTER
ASSEMBLY
THRUSTER
ASSEMBLY
CRYO-
SLEEP
OPEN GALLEY
MAIN
AIRLOCK
CHEM
TANKS
BIO-
CHEMICAL
TESTING
LAB
OPEN
OFFICE
CONFERENCE
HALL
SCIENTIFIC
LIBRARY
BIOLAB
WITH
MEDPODS
02–04
THRUSTER
ASSEMBLY
FOOD
STORES
THRUSTER
ASSEMBLY
AIRLOCK
CRYOSLEEP
PODS
HEAD
COMPUTER
CORE/
NAVIGATION
MEDPOD 01
O2 SCRUBBERS
LADDER
TO UPPER
MAINTAINANCE
CRAWLWAY AND
VENTRAL AUX
ASTROPHYSICS
HATCH
LAB,
HOLOTABLE
OBSERVATION
REACTOR
RELAY
STATION
MEDKIT
MAINFRAME
AN N E BO W ERS
PILOT, UNCSS TYPHOON
Courageous, spirited and optimistic, Bowers is relieved
that rescue is on its way. However, she is concerned for
the safety of her husband, Captain Leland Barton.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 5, WITS 4, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Observation 2, Comtech 2, Command 1,
Piloting 2, Mobility 1
TALENT: Full Throttle
GEAR: Hazmat Suit (Armor Rating 1, Air Supply 3)
23 81 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
ARZU
PLANET SIZEATMOSPHEREHYDROSPHERE
DAY LENGTH
AXIAL TILT
20,000 KMBreathableTemperate dry16 Hours25 degrees
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL FEATUREORBITAL PERIODPLANETARY PERSONALITY
2GColdSimple life10 daysMalevolent
KOI-2702.07
-ARZU
LIVING PROTO-HIVE
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
N/A
LIVING PROTO-HIVE
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
LIVING PROTO-HIVE
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
N/A
N/A
MOUNTAIN RANGES WITH
DEEP VALLEYS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
LIFEBOAT DISTRESS BEACON
−1
LIVING PROTO-HIVE
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
N/A
MOUNTAINS CUT BY
SKY BLUE LAKES
STEEP-SIDED RIVER GORGES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
+1
ARZU
Arzu was once an Engineer staging post, a hub for
vessels traveling across this sector of space. As such it
was an obvious place for the Perfected to concentrate
their efforts, in the hope of taking control and infecting
ships as they passed through. The Engineer facilities
were concentrated in the northern hemisphere, now lost
under the Perfected’s living Proto-Hive.
Lifeboat Two landed in a ravine within the equatorial
region, three kilometers south of the leading edge of
the Proto-Hive infection. Here, the hive has consumed
a number of Engineer Juggernauts that now litter the
landscape as huge mounds of earth and seething Pro-
to-Hive matter. At the edge of this dreadful landscape
there is a partially consumed Engineer Juggernaut,
covered in Proto-Hive tendrils, plant matter and earth.
Its two enormous prongs are simply bulges under the
earth, but the flat end of the ship remains exposed.
The lifeboat’s emergency beacon is active but weak,
and once the PCs are in orbit they can home in on it.
Once within 20 km, a COMTECH roll will detect weak
PDT traces of the remaining crew—these are too weak
to pinpoint their exact location but can track them to
within about 100 m:
Captain Leland Barton—alive, located three km north
of the lifeboat
Counselor Gráinne Shields—alive, located with
the captain
Security Officer Azad Rukmini—alive, located with
the captain
Navigator Petronella Edouard—deceased, at the
lifeboat
Prospector Sargis Narene—deceased, at the lifeboat
Scientist Ji-Hye Suk—deceased, at the lifeboat.
T
T
T
T
T
T
239G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE HONEY TRAP
The Perfected have lost their patience with the Chil-
dren of the Two Divines and their failure to acquire a
ship that can take them to the Middle Heavens. They
have decided to allow the humans to learn of their
false plan to use the Engineer Lychgate to make that
journey. This is the honey trap—the lure to bring the
humans to the Lychgate, where the Perfected will
spring their surprise and capture all the ships they
need. But they can’t make it seem too easy—can’t
just give the humans the data—for they must not
smell a rat. After all, only one of the PCs needs to
make it back with the information.
L I F E B OAT T W O
This has the same layout as Lifeboat One.
The main airlock door stands open, and the power
is on. The lifeboat has been badly damaged by its
emergency landing and inside is a shambles. There are
few supplies left scattered among the debris, but the
MedPods still work. Communications are dead, except
for the automated emergency beacon.
Outside the lifeboat, tracks lead north, towards a
rising ridge of earth covered in plant growth and the
gray-black-crimson of the Proto-Hive. If the PCs check,
and succeed with an OBSERVATION roll, they can
see there are eight sets of tracks heading north (the
THE ENGINEER
JUGGERNAUT
240
surviving crew and devotees of the Children of the
Two Divines).
M E D P O D 0 1 : The Typhoon’s Navigator, Petronella
Edouard, is here. She has suffered terrible injuries
from the crash and is dead.
F O O D S T O R E S : The bodies of Sargis Narene and
Ji-Hye Suk have been dumped here. Both have terrible
wounds and lacerations. With a successful MEDICAL
AID roll the PCs can see their fatal injuries are stab
wounds, and not caused by the crash.
LOWER LEVEL
This ship has been here for thousands of years.
The Engineers who were intending to flee from
the Perfected realized they could not escape
infection and chose to sacrifice themselves
rather than risk spreading the plague further.
Over the millennia, the Engineer ship has cor-
roded and worn away, only a shell of it remaining
underneath the earth and Proto-Hive matter. All
the tunnels have tendrils running through them,
and there is a Nodule in every zone (page 130).AT R I U M C AV E R N : A cavern formed by years of
matter accumulating around the decaying ship, held
in place by the Proto-Hive. On all sides the walls are
recognizable as the outer shell of an Engineer Jugger-
naut. Where the hull has fallen away, mounds of debris
have gathered. To the north end, the Proto-Hive
matter continues to encroach, filling the space.
The cavern is only illuminated by a fire in the
middle, that casts a weak orange glow. Three figures
sit around it—two devotees and Azad Rukmini. Ruk-
mini has been separated from the other survivors as
he chose not to join the Perfected.
A P E R T U R E S : These oval openings are five
meters wide. None appear to have any kind of
door or bulkhead. Those on the lower level can
be accessed with a bit of nimble footwork, but
those on the upper level are 20 meters off the
ground and require a MOBILITY roll with a −2
modification to access. The successful use of an
ASSO-400 Harpoon Gun or similar equipment
will remove that negative modifier.R E A DY R O O M : Full of racks that reach from floor
to ceiling, this area is a warren of twisted structures
and ornate scaffolding. Captain Barton and Gráinne
Shields are here, guarded by Mother Ma’Kayla (page
144), four devotees, and two Stage IV Aethon
XX033 Deacons (page 135). They are waiting for
the PCs to arrive and for the Perfected to make their
move but will challenge the PCs if they come here.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
C A R G O 1 : These long chambers have floors
recessed three meters down, with ribbed, almost
organic girders running from side to side. Within the
recess, a layer of mist, two meters deep, casts a sheen
across the whole room, catching the ambient blue
glow and making a beam that lies across it. Beneath
the beam, in the mist, rest hundreds of withered but
serene Engineer bodies, laid out in disciplined rows.
If the PCs touch the mist they receive a mild electric
shock from it, and a gentle musical note from nowhere
plays out across the chamber.
The mist is thick and sweet smelling, but any PC
submerged within it suffers from Severe hypoxia (page
91). An OBSERVATION roll will allow the PCs to con-
clude this is what killed the Engineers, and—by the way
they are set out—they willingly took their own lives.B O M B B AY : The floor of this chamber is an open
30-meter-wide iris value, revealing a five meter deep
pit with the bottom covered by Proto-Hive tendrils.
Above this is a suspended bomb rack, holding hun-
dreds of steatite ampules. These contain the black
goo—the 26 Draconis strain. They are out of reach, but
it is possible to knock one loose—the PCs will need
to use their imagination to get to one. Once loose
the ampule will fall into the central pit. Roll a Stress
the ampule shatters splattering black goo.
Die—on
Anyone within ENGAGED range must make a Sickness
Roll against Virulence 6 or become infected as a Stage
I Abomination Pathogen Carrier (page 123).
C A R G O 2 : Filled with empty racks for steatite
ampules, enough space for tens of thousands.P O W E R C H A M B E R S : Very warm and vibrating
with the hum of energy.
O V E R S E E R ’ S B AY : There are twelve panels spread
across this chamber, each with a seat, a harp-like
structure built into the top, and white fleshy controls.
If the PCs wish to activate them, they need to succeed
at an OBSERVATION roll followed by COMTECH . ThisM A K E S H I F T C A M P : This chamber has been set
up as a camp for the devotees of the Children of the
Two Divines. There are six sleeping rolls, bags and
stools, portable stoves and boxes of prefab meals.
Hidden amongst all this are D6 doses of Hydr8tion and
Naproleve.
activates a hologram that plays out before the PCs—
see the sidebar The Last Dance of the Engineers.
TH E EN GIN EER J U G G ER N AUT— LO W ER LEV EL
10×10 METERS
APERTURE
CARGO 1
STEPS
UP
CARGO 1
DEBRIS
OVERSEER’S
BAY
DEBRIS
ATRIUM
CAVERN
DEBRIS
APERTURE
BOMB BAY
READY
ROOM
STEPS
UP
CARGO 2
POWER
CHAMBERS
MAKESHIFT
CAMP
APERTURE
241G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE 26 DRACONIS STRAIN
If a PC becomes infected by the black goo or through the touch of an Abomination, they are in deep shit.
The only chance they have is to ingest or inject another dose of the 26 Draconis strain. If they do this, they
still have little hope. They must make a STAMINA roll, and then add the number of
to a D6 roll:
1–4The PC feels strong for a moment, but it’s a false hope. The black goo starts a rapid conversion of
their DNA. Their bodies bubble and burst in a welter of black gore. They die. All who witness this
gain +1 STRESS LEVEL .
5The PC convulses for three Rounds as the black goo accelerates the transformation—then they
immediately evolve into the next stage of Abomination. All who witness this gain +1 STRESS LEVEL
and must make an immediate Panic Roll.
6The infection is slowed but not cured. The PC will feel better, but their doom is still assured. How-
ever, the infection is dormant for four Shifts, but then continues to consume the PC as normal.
7+The infection is halted, and the PC will survive. However, they have forever been tainted by the 26
Draconis strain—how will this affect them in the future?
THE LAST DANCE OF THE ENGINEERS
The room is suddenly awash with bright blue light,
where to go. One by one, ten by ten, they reach a
a billion pixels flooding your senses. They swirl
spot and calmly lie down. Some signal to others,
then fall like snowflakes, resolving into images
seeming to wave, while some hold a forearm
of huge humanoids, coming from all directions.
or touch the shoulder of a…what? Companion?
An endless stream of people, alien people, filling
Friend? Crew mate? But within a few moments
the chamber then running down one tunnel—run-
they all—hundreds of them—lie back and place
ning towards the huge cathedral of a room, with
their hands across their chests, in resignation, in
a recessed floor and row upon row of ribbed
peace, in finality. Then the blue pixels flash and
structures holding it together. They seem to know
die, one by one, and before long they are all gone.
AZAD R U KMINI
SECURITY OFFICER, UNCSS TYPHOON
Frightened and pessimistic but not willing to go down
without a fight, Rukmini has refused to join the Per-
fected. He has been given time to reconsider his deci-
sion. He doesn’t know where Barton and Shields are. He
will risk his life to save the PCs, given the chance.
STRENGTH 5, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 5
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Observation 2, Mobility 2,
Ranged Combat 2
TALENT: Bodyguard
GEAR: M3 Personnel Armor (Armor Rating 6)
2421 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
LELAND BARTO N
CAPTAIN, UNCSS TYPHOON AND STAGE I
PATHOGEN CARRIER
Grief-stricken and hopeless, Barton sees no way forward
other than to seek Perfection. He believes his wife, Ann
Bowers—a security officer aboard the Typhoon
Typhoon—is
—is
dead, and in his desolate weakness, agreed to join the
Perfected. Now that he is infected there is no turning
back. If a PC touches him, they must make a Sickness
Roll against Virulence 6 or become infected as a Stage I
Abomination Pathogen Carrier (page 123).
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Stamina 2, Close Combat 1, Piloting 2,
Command 3, Manipulation 3
TALENT: Authority
GEAR: Torn flight suit
G RÁIN N E S HIELDS
COUNSELOR, UNCSS TYPHOON AND STAGE I
PATHOGEN CARRIER
Resolute, stubborn and ready to die to stop the
Perfected, Shields has pretended to go along with
them. She can feel the infection within her and knows
it can’t be good. When the Perfected were playing
the Navigation Orrery she secretly recorded it on a
data pad she has hidden within her suit. She will pass
the data pad to a PC (this is the fifth campaign clue)
and create a diversion to allow them to escape. She
doesn’t realize this, but in passing the data pad on,
the PC receiving it must resist the infection (Virulence
6) she—as a Pathogen Carrier—unknowingly is con-
taminated with it.
STRENGTH 2, AGILITY 4, WITS 4, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 2
SKILLS: Observation 3, Medical Aid 2,
Manipulation 3, Mobility 1
TALENT: Flyweight
GEAR: Protective suit (Armor Rating 2), data pad
UPPER LEVEL
S TA S I S C H A M B E R : A darkened room with row
upon row of Engineer cryosleep beds, across the
floor and running up the walls. They are all empty.
A C C E S S C H A M B E R : Tunnels in the floor of
this otherwise spartan room lead down into Cargo
1 on the lower level. If a PC is running through
this space, they must make an OBSERVATION roll
to spot and avoid the tunnels. If they fail, they
tumble through, suffering five points of damage
on a MOBILITY roll. They
reduced by one per
end up under the mist in Cargo 1.
THE PERFECTED ENGINEERS
The two Perfected in this place are Engineers that
were infected millennia ago and were two of the
very few Engineers to succumb to Perfection rather
than face annihilation. They are titanic parodies of
their former selves, their black eyes now mottled
and dull, their bodies no longer whiter than white,
crisscrossed with gray biomechanical tubules that
bulge and twist around them—but they are still
recognizable as what they once were.
243G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
T H E C H O R I S T R Y : Rows of concentric terraces
lead down to a recessed stage in the center of the
chamber. On this stand rest a weird variety of gongs,
pipes, and cymbals with various mallets for striking. If
one is played the melodious sound echoes around the
ship time and again. The music is so melodious that
playing one of these causes the Engineer Perfected to
momentarily remember their former lives, and pause
for a full Round, taking no action.
S A C R E D C H A M B E R : This chamber appears fea-
tureless and empty until the PCs look up. The ceiling
is the Sistine Chapel in hell. Carved figures writhe
in terror or agony, beastly talons and jaws strain to
tear themselves free from the hull and fall upon the
unwary. It’s such a sight that all viewing it gain +1
STRESS LEVEL .
S T E A M R O O M S : Filled with mist and steam, visibil-
ity in these chambers is reduced to SHORT range. They
are also hot—for every Round after the first in here the
PCs suffer heatstroke (page 91).
P OW E R C H A M B E R S A N D D R I V E C H A M B E R :
Ornate structures weave and wrap around these
rooms, and hum with restrained energy.
V I E W I N G R O O M : The two Engineer Perfected are
here, using their telepathic abilities to monitor the PCs’
progress through the Juggernaut. Once the PCs have
delved deep enough into the ship—and at a time of
your choosing to best enhance the excitement—they
will act. See the event Join Us. Part of the ship’s struc-
ture has decayed away, and the Perfected can access
the atrium cavern or the Navigator Orrery from here.
N AV I G AT O R O R R E R Y : The chamber is dominated
by the raised navigation dais in the center of the room
and the orrery holograms that swirl and dance above it.
Central to this display is a mottled gas giant orbited by
a four-sided, almost circular structure, with an immense
outer ring connected to a central hub by spiraling
booms. The outer ring has four great hangars, and the
central hub is a massive flattened sphere seemingly
fashioned by the hands of the gods themselves. It spins
in breathtakingly elegant laziness. It is the Lychgate.
This is the fifth campaign clue (page 162).
TH E EN GIN EER J U G G ER N AUT— U P P ER LEV EL
POWER
CHAMBERS
10×10 METERS
ACCESS
CHAMBER
STEPS
DOWN
ACCESS
CHAMBER
VIEWING ROOM
APERTURE
STEPS
DOWN
DRIVE
CHAMBER
STASIS
CHAMBER
NAVIGATOR
ORRERY
APERTURE
APERTURE
APERTURE
STEPS
DOWN
POWER
CHAMBERS
POWER
CHAMBERS
244
VIEWING
ROOM
STEAM
ROOMS
THE
SACRED
CHAPEL
THE
CHORISTRY1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
EVENTS
D O N ’ T I G N O R E T H E J O E S : Shortly after the
PCs have boarded the UNCSS Typhoon, they will be
met by the ship’s Working Joes—Jake and Elwood.
They challenge the PCs, saying they are unauthorized
personnel and must leave the ship immediately. They
will follow the PCs, repeating this challenge, and—if
the PCs do not leave—will wait for a suitable moment,
then attack the intruders.
S H I E L D I N G H E R F R I E N D S : Once the PCs have
entered the Engineer Juggernaut and made enough
noise to alert those already inside to their presence,
Gráinne Shields acts. She knows the PCs are walking
into danger. She shouts a warning and tries to reach
them, although a nearby Deacon will attempt to stop
her. She will fight to reach them and hand over her
data pad.
T H E T R A I T O R : While the PCs are inside the Engi-
neer Juggernaut, Leland Barton approaches them or
allows himself to be found and rescued. However, it is
a ruse. He wants to gain the PCs’ trust and help them
escape, so he can take over the Solovetsky Island and
bring it here for the Perfected. Despite his infection he
still looks human, albeit a little unwell. He will pass it
off as the stress of the situation. A successful MEDICAL
FINALE
Once the PCs reject the Perfected’s offer to join
them (above), the Perfected have every intention
of letting at least one escape, but capturing or kill-
ing some of the others, to make the escape look
genuine. Both Perfected will chase them down,
along with Mother Ma’Kayla, four devotees, and
three Deacons, using telepathy and voiced shouts
of: “You cannot escape, submit to perfection!”
They will try to trap the PCs, shepherding them
through the Juggernaut but eventually allowing
them to escape.
But it will be a tough chase, and not every PC
may make it out alive.
AID roll will diagnose he is suffering from the Abomi-
nation pathogen, and he is highly infectious. If at any
point a PC mentions Barton’s wife and that she is alive
he will break down, and—if the PCs succeed at an
opposed MANIPULATION roll—tell them the truth. He
will then do all he can to help them escape.
S TA L K I N G D E A C O N : As the PCs explore the
Engineer Juggernaut, a Deacon is nearby. It does not
intend to attack, but is tracking the PCs’ movements,
so they can be trapped at the right moment. Enter
stealth mode.
J O I N U S : The Perfected move to intercept the PCs,
sending a telepathic wave of positive emotion and
images of warmth and satisfaction. The PCs’ minds
are flooded with images of love, togetherness, and
the wonder of the universe alongside images of being
trapped. They say: “Join us and experience Perfection.
There is nowhere to run to, and no way out. Gift us
your ship and you will be honored among us.” The PCs
must make an Empathy test, attribute only—if they fail,
they must make an immediate Panic Roll, if they suc-
ceed they gain +1 STRESS LEVEL . The Perfected start
the hunt for the PCs, sending Mother Ma’Kayla, her
devotees and three Deacons to track them down.
EPILOGUE
The coordinates data for the Lychgate will take
time for DA/UT/UR to decode. How long will
depend on where in the campaign you run this
expedition. The coordinates should become avail-
able at the end of the campaign, to allow the PCs
to race to the Lychgate for the campaign finale.
Following this story, the PCs could recommend
and be involved in the colonization of Azizo, or
advocate for the destruction of Arzu using the
UNCSS Ìyánlá’s stocks of terraforming nukes. ■
245G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
METAPUZZLE CLUE #5—INTERPRETATION OF THE HOLOGRAM ORRERY
The Engineer structure—the Lychgate—orbits a super gas giant. The Orrery data provides spatial
coordinates but to decode, analyze and identify where the data refers to will require the
processing power of DA/UT/UR aboard Solovetsky Island.
Arzu, the moon of KOI-2702.07, the gas giant called Palmyra, is highlighted on the Orrery. An
interstellar trajectory between it and the Lychgate has been calculated and overlaid on the
projection.
Engineer hieroglyphs float within the stars and systems. Translation:
—THE LYCHGATE IS OUR HOPE OF A FUTURE—ITS LOCATION TO BE PROTECTED FROM OUR CHILDREN—ACCESS TO
THIS INFORMATION MUST BE WITHHELD—
6 .
L E T S L E E P I N G
G O D S L I E
“If you do not enter the tiger’s
cave you will not catch its cub.”
— J A PA N E S E P R OV E R B
The PCs are sent to survey Pelican Colony, and find
a planet swept clean of life by radiation. They also
detect the smoking wreckage of a crashed spaceship.
The colony is kept operational by primitive automatons,
little more than automated Powerloaders with no
resemblance to androids or synthetics, that view the
PCs as a problem that needs cleaning up. They learn
that the survivors from the crashed ship are the pirates,
Gorham’s Marauders, here to destroy the Perfected.
Mounting a mission into the bowels of an ancient Engi-
neer Guardian ship they uncover the terrifying truth
and find themselves in a desperate race to not only
survive, but to stop the horrors they have unearthed.
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
Pelican Colony KOI-947.01 was a flourishing agri-
cultural society—the “breadbasket of the frontier”—
boasting a population in the millions in 2100. Although
the colony survived the Isolation, it shrank to one city
246
of 100,000. Then, a year ago, disaster struck. The local
sun, a gentle G7 main sequence yellow star, turned
angry, flooding the system with radiation. Pelican
Colony became uninhabitable overnight.1 0 .
A few people managed to escape the planet, while
some took refuge in the tunnels behind the great
Godafoss waterfall or in the Skritio Caves, an ancient
Engineer Guardian ship that’s been lying in the moun-
tains so long it has merged with the landscape. All the
rest died, their irradiated bodies still lying where they
fell, macabre statues to a once flourishing city. Those
who fled into the tunnels behind the Godafoss water-
fall eventually starved to death. Those who fled to the
perceived safety of the Skritio Caves were saved from
the radiation but stumbled across the slumbering Per-
fected that inhabit the ship, and the 26 Draconis strain.
They were infected. Most died hideous deaths, but
some survived. They lie, sleeping within the bowels of
the vessel, in altered states of Abomination.
Since then, the colony’s automatons have con-
tinued to work without missing a beat—facilities are
well-maintained, streets are clean, fields are tended,
although little grows in the radiation.
J.V.Gorham, the leader of Gorham’s Marauders,
traveled to Pelican Colony to check out information
she extracted from a captured devotee of the Children
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
The PCs receive a video call from Gaius aboard
UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
“Your next assignment, Solovetsky Island, is
Pelican Colony KOI-947.01. It is an agricultural set-
tlement that used to provide significant imports
of food into the Middle Heavens before the
Isolation. The environment is fertile and climate
temperate, average daytime temperature a balmy
24°C. Established by the Weyland Corporation in
2049, Pelican came under the Three World Empire
later in the century. Population in 2100 reported
to be 6.5 million. And it’s big. Gravity of 1.5G and a
diurnal duration of 48 hours.
E X P E D I T I O N S
of the Two Divines—that Perfected exist in a cave
in the mountains near the city. In her pirate vessel,
the Spirit of Trafalgar, she encountered a ship of the
Children of the Two Divines and chased it into orbit.
However, the Spirit of Trafalgar suffered a catastrophic
mechanical failure—in fact sabotage by her traitorous
crew member, Nessa Majken—and the ship crashed
south of the city. Five of the crew were killed in the
crash, but Gorham and four others, Rashid Ravindra,
Martina Willamar, Dijana Klaasen and Majken, sur-
vived. They wiped the Spirit of Trafalgar’s navigation
computers, but Majken took a secret copy of the data
to pass to the Perfected. They headed into the city,
finding refuge in the Godafoss Caverns.
24 hours later, Gorham and Majken left their injured
crewmates at the Godafoss refuge and traveled to the
Extrasolar Colonial Administration Center to figure
out how to send a distress beacon. Majken convinced
Gorham, against her better judgment, to reconnoiter
the Skritio Caves. When they find what they are look-
ing for, Majken intends to betray Gorham and hand her,
and the navigation data, to the Perfected.
As usual, you will operate under the initial
survey and assessment responsibilities of the
Great Mother Mission. You will need to establish
contact with the local authorities, should they
exist, and offer assistance. Naturally, your Colony
Potential Report should focus on the future
farming opportunities and how soon imports back
home can resume, but also scientific research
possibilities and the usual ad hoc opportunities
that may arise.
Good luck, Solovetsky Island.”
C L U E S T O T H E M E TA P U Z Z L E
The PCs can learn the sixth campaign clue (page
162) by exploring the Guardian ship and translating
the Engineer glyphs in the Shrine. They can also
corroborate the first campaign clue (page 162) by
checking the Spirit of Trafalgar’s logs and seeing that
its navigation data has been wiped, or by rescuing and
talking to J.V. Gorham.
247G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
PELICAN COLONY’S LONG DATA DISC
The long data disc can be found in the Extrasolar Colo-
radiation—on a
the radiation wipes the data. If this
nial Administration Center. It’s safe from the radiation
happens, the PCs will lose any bonus for this expedi-
while in place, as it is shielded, but once removed,
tion, for being so careless.
roll a Stress Die every Shift the disc is exposed to
SOLAR SYSTEM
& COLONY RECORD
KOI-947 System and KOI-947.01
KOI-947.01
The planet is scorchingly hot, exceeding 40 °C with
potential for heatstroke for careless PCs (page
91). The land is prone to wildfires and firenadoes
fanned by the winds. It’s a big planet too, with a
surface gravity of 1.5G, resulting in gravity dyspraxia
(page 91) and a day that’s 48 hours long. But
the biggest problem is the radiation. At all times on
KOI-947.01 the PCs will suffer the effects of Weak
radiation, unless they are protected by a sealed com-
pression suit (don’t forget their Air Supply rolls), are
inside their ship or a vehicle, in the Godafoss caverns
or the Guardian ship. The local star is unpredictable,
and at any time Pelican Colony can be swept with a
radiation storm (see the event Bring Me Sunshine).
The planetary map gives you all the details
you need for KOI-947.01 should your PCs want to
further explore or even colonize it, using the rules
in the Appendix: Building Your Own Better World
(page 275).
PELICAN COLONY
SURVEYED PLANET POSITION
PARENT STAR
Single
1
G7 Main Sequence
GAS GIANTS
ROCKY
PLANETSICE PLANETS
ASTEROID
BELTSRADIATION
52
1WEAK
PLANET SIZEATMOSPHEREHYDRO-
SPHEREDAY LENGTHAXIAL TILT
15,000 KMBreath-
ableArid48 HoursNone
GRAVITYCLIMATEGLOBAL
FEATUREORBITAL
PERIODPLANETARY
PERSONALITY
1.5GHotDust-
laden
perma-
nent
sunset
sky554 daysSpiteful
2
KOI-947.01
STEEP-SIDED RIVER GORGES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+1
MOUNTAIN RANGES
WITH DEEP VALLEYS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
SWEEPING PLAINS
OF GIANT GRASS
−1
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
PELICAN COLONY
HUGE RIVERS AND
VAST RIVER DELTAS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
+2
DEEP AND WIDE
RIFT VALLEYS
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
EXTENSIVE DESERTS
+0
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
ROCKEY PLAINS RIVEN WITH
CAVE SYSTEMS AND
SINK HOLES
RESOURCE POTENTIAL
248
+2
+0
−21 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
KICKING OFF THE ACTION
The action starts as the PCs arrive in the KOI-947
system. The PCs immediately detect the activity of the
host star and the high levels of radiation it’s kicking
out, a bad portent for Pelican Colony.
Pelican Colony is built in the steep foothills of the
mountains, a beautiful sight—two great rivers ride
down from the heights and split into what was once
a lush and fertile delta. Stunning waterfalls create a
spray that leaves the colony with almost permanent
rainbows, culminating in the glory of the Godafoss
falls, right in the center of the city. From a distance,
Pelican Colony looks fully functioning, clean streets
brightly illuminated, well-maintained buildings gleam-
ing in the sun and machines working the fields.
But on closer inspection the PCs notice the
following:
There is a complete absence of life, and an absence
of radio or other transmissions you would expect
from a functioning society.
There are no cloud formations, the sunlight is very
bright, and the planet looks arid.
The surface temperature is above 40°C and is
bathed in Weak radiation.
And they detect a weak transponder beacon from a
recent crash site, to the south of the city.
T
T
T
T
O N A P P R O A C H : Once the PCs start their approach
to the city, they receive an automatic beacon, signal-
ing them to land at the spaceport. If they ignore this
THE AUTOMATONS
Pelican Colony is entirely automated, the farms,
factories and utilities all running themselves. Other
activities are carried out by the automatons, little more
than automated Powerloaders. Their programming is
simple—fulfill basic tasks and protect life. They will
also protect themselves against being deactivated, as
they must be active to succeed in their primary tasks.
To deactivate an automaton a PC needs to access the
control panel on its back, using MOBILITY to climb up
the hand and footholds built into the machine for that
purpose, and make a COMTECH roll. The automatons
will use force to protect the PCs, from the radiation or
and choose to land somewhere other than the space-
port they will receive these sequential messages from
the spaceport’s automated Traffic Control, increasing
in urgency with each message:
“You are diverting from your allocated course.
Please resume your course for the safety of all traffic.”
“You are not on your allotted course. Do you require
assistance?”
“Emergency assistance is en route to your position.
Please wait. Help will be with you soon.”
If the PCs say they are landing elsewhere the auto-
mated system won’t understand, and will respond:
“Landing is only permitted at the spaceport. Any diver-
sion implies mechanical failure or other emergency
and danger to your lives.”
L A N D I N G : Landing requires a PILOT test. If the roll
is failed, the ship has landed heavily and takes D3
damage. Wherever they land, they will be met by D6
automatons one Turn after they have touched down.
The automatons have been sent to rescue the PCs,
thinking they have landed here due to malfunction or
misfortune.
S H O R E PA R T Y : As there is a crashed ship, Lakota
Monroe (page 157) suggests they should see if
anyone needs help, and that she should join the shore
party as a medic.
other threats as the robots see it, using the automaton
attack table.
STRENGTH 10, AGILITY 2, WITS 5, EMPATHY 0
HEALTH: 10 (Armor Rating 4)
SPEED: 1
SKILLS: Heavy Machinery 2, Comtech 2,
Observation 2, Mobility 1
GEAR: Built-in cutting torch (Power Supply 6) and
self-reloading bolt gun, two hydraulic grip-vices
A NOTE FROM MU/TH/UR: These machines take half damage (rounding up)
from fire and are immune to radiation and EMP effects. If they are
attacked, or someone attempts to deactivate them, they will defend
themselves—roll on the same table but +3 to the automaton attack
roll. ■
249G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
AUTOMATON ATTACKS
D6ATTACK
1–3RESTRAIN: The automaton restrains the target using its hydraulic grip-vices, making a grapple attack with
eight Base Dice. The target gains a +2 modification if they attempt to dodge using MOBILITY , but if the attack
hits the target is grappled and will be taken to Godafoss falls or another safe location.
4
INTIMIDATE: The automaton produces a low growl and takes a step forward. It says: “For your safety, obey my
instructions—you have five seconds to comply.” The target gains +1 STRESS LEVEL and all future automaton
attack rolls for this robot gain +1 to the roll.
5
KNOCK: The automaton sweeps its huge arms at the target and attacks with eight Base Dice. If the target is
hit, they only take one point of damage, are knocked prone and must make a STAMINA roll or be stunned,
losing their next slow action.
6BATTER: Positronic potentials in the automaton’s brain build to a crescendo as it becomes desperate to stop
7SEARING FLAME: In an attempt to frighten the target using its cutting torch the automaton actually makes an
the target. It attempts to batter them into submission, making a ten Base Dice attack, Damage 1.
attack, with five Base Dice, Damage 2.
8
BOLT VOLLEY: The automaton’s built-in bolt gun clicks over and fires three bolts in quick succession, each
attack has three Base Dice, Damage 1.
9
CRUSH: The automaton seeks to immobilize the target as swiftly as possible, deeming it a safety threat. It
grabs with the grip-vice and crushes without mercy, with a ten Base Dice attack, Damage 1. If the target takes
any damage they have been crushed in half, and are killed. All who witness this gain +1 STRESS LEVEL and
must make a Panic Roll.
25 01 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
P I R AT E V E S S E L S P I R I T O F T R A FA L G A R
The PCs recognize this ship as an old Corvus-class
vessel and see its registration number and name. A
check of their ship’s records will reveal it was launched
in 2088 under the name USCSS Borys. It’s being
stripped down and salvaged by ten automatons, piling
the remains into automated trucks for return to scrap
yards. There is no sign of the crew. The automatons
will ignore the PCs until, after one Turn, three make
their way to UNCSS Solovetsky Island and start the
work to salvage it (see the event Clean Up Crews). If
the PCs interfere with the automatons, they will stop
salvaging and focus on protecting the PCs from the
radiation and themselves, by taking them, by force if
necessary, to the Godafoss Refuge for their own safety.
If the PCs attempt to board the Spirit of Trafalgar,
an automaton will try to stop them “for their own
safety.” But once aboard, the PCs can reach the
remains of the bridge and check the logs. This will
show them the details of the chase and the engine fail-
ure that led to the crash, and that the ship’s navigation
data was wiped from the computer after the attack
(and learn the conclusions of the first campaign clue).
A successful COMTECH roll shows them that the data
was also downloaded at the moment it was wiped.
As the PCs watch the automatons salvaging the
ship a human figure is revealed from the wreckage.
An automaton almost lovingly places the body in a
coffin-sized metal container, then picks it up between
its grip vices and walks the five kilometers to the
Godafoss refuge, where it places the body alongside
four other coffins. The victim is the Spirit of Trafalgar’s
pilot, Adam Ingram. He is dead.
251G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
P ELICA N CO LO NY
M O U N T A I N S
SKRITIO
CAVE
DAM
M O U N T A I N S
THE
PLAIN
+100
+0
+100
WATERFALL
WATERFALL
+100
+0
+0
SPACEPORT
CARGO
DISTRICT
3WE
ADMIN
FACTORY
DISTRICT
GODAFOSS
WATERFALL
AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICT
RESIDENTIAL
UNIVERSITY
DISTRICT
RESIDENTIAL
AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICT
ECA
CENTRE
LEISURE
DISTRICT
F A R M
F I E L D S
RESIDENTIAL
F A R M
F I E L D S
AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICT
F A R M
F I E L D S
AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICT
SPIRIT OF TRAFALGAR
CRASH SITE
1 KM
2521 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
PELICAN COLONY
S PA C E P O R T : Fully automated and in good working
order, D6 automatons are always in close proximity to a
landed ship. This is the only place in the colony where
the automatons won’t try to salvage a vessel (see the
event Clean Up Crews).
A D M I N I S T R AT I O N C E N T E R : A two-story office
block with a viewing tower housing the Colonial Oper-
ations control center. There is a desiccated body here,
wearing a uniform with the name tag: “Lohengrin.”
The colony command logs and the long data disc are
found here. If the PCs spend a Turn analyzing the disc,
they can learn the following:
Population of five million in 2110. In the years imme-
diately afterwards, there was terrible civil turmoil,
and many died or fled the planet.
In the years between 2120 and 2140, other colonies
launched raids on Pelican Colony, to capture food
supplies and production. The wars that followed
killed many. Population in 2150 was 100,000.
Stability restored, Pelican Colony looked after itself.
Trade with other colonies was banned.
In 2183 the local star became unstable, followed in
2184 by sudden radiation storms.
2185 population 0.
The PCs can also access the last three log entries,
two from 36 hours ago, and one from 10 months.
See the adjacent sidebar.
T
T
T
T
T
T
3 W E A D M I N I S T R AT I O N : This four-story building
was the center of the 3WE’s administration and oper-
ations, and as such houses the Colonial Operations
Control Room.
U N I V E R S I T Y : The facility is a sweeping but
deserted campus. An automated registrar will
welcome them and ask which courses they are
considering.
H O P P I P O L L A L A K E & D A M : A huge hydro-elec-
tric facility built within the folds of the mountains. A
small army of automatons keeps it maintained.
R E S I D E N T I A L Z O N E S : These would be perfect
places to live, except for the scorching radiation.
FA R M FA C T O R Y Z O N E S : Buzzing with robotic
activity, these places are running flat out to feed and
support a population that’s long since gone.
L E I S U R E Z O N E S : Parks, malls, sports facilities,
and nightlife centers are all ready for people to kill
time on their off days, including a fully operational
theme park with roller coasters, log flumes and a giant
Ferris wheel.
LOG ENTRIES
36 HOURS AGO:TEN MONTHS AGO:
AUTOMATED LOG ENTRY: “Unidentified vesselWARDEN HENRIK LOHENGRIN REPORTING: “My last
inbound—distress beacon activated—unrespon-
sive to communication—unauthorized planetfall in
sector B-11—units sent to inspect.”log entry. The radiation storm is worse than we
feared. Some have escaped, but many died in the
crush to board the last ships. Everyone left here is
doomed. Some have taken refuge in the caverns
under the Godafoss falls and worker teams from
the dam have hidden in the Skritio Cave. Now I
wish we’d explored it more deeply, but superstition
is powerful. I don’t suppose it will do much good.
I’m too weak now but will try to make it to the falls.”
AUTOMATED LOG ENTRY: “Five nominals identified
and transferred to Godafoss falls refuge—vessel to
be salvaged and site cleared of obstruction.”
FINDING THE REFUGE
There are four ways the PCs can learn of the
refuge beneath the Godafoss falls: an automaton
may capture a PC and take them there for their
safety; they can follow an automaton as it returns
a victim of the crash to the refuge; they can access
the logs at the Administration Building; and they
can find and examine the remains of the survivor
camp within the Guardian ship.
253G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
BREAKING AND ENTERING
The PCs cannot access any buildings in the city, as
automated systems will deny them entry. To hack in
requires an opposed COMTECH roll versus eight Base
Dice. Whatever the outcome of the roll, an autom-
aton will appear after D6 Rounds to investigate. If
hacking doesn’t work, the PCs can break the door
down or smash a window with a STAMINA roll, but
again an automaton will arrive in D6 Rounds to
repair the damage and protect the PCs from their
own hazardous behavior, by restraining them.
GODAFOSS
Godafoss falls is a wonderful sweeping cres-
cent-shaped waterfall, 300 meters wide and 100
meters high—a local beauty spot. Roads and walkways
lead down to the river below. One of these forms a
wide rocky shelf that goes behind the falls themselves.
This leads to the Godafoss Caverns.
C AV E R N S : The caverns are deep and adorned
with semi-transparent stalactites and stalagmites, all
illuminated with tastefully placed lighting to enhance
the ambiance. The entrance tunnel goes 200 meters
before opening into a wide cavern full of equipment,
wires, cables and 150 dead bodies—survivors who
starved to death, now just bones and rags. There are
five coffins here, containing the dead crew of the
Spirit of Trafalgar, and three survivors: Rashid Ravin-
dra, Martina Willamar, and Dijana Klaassen. Unless
the PCs actively sneak into the caverns, they will
assume the PCs are Children of the Two Divines, from
the ship they had been chasing. They lay an ambush
and will attack when the PCs enter the room. Enter
stealth mode.
If the PCs subdue the Marauders through violence,
they will be defiant in defeat—they will not cooperate
or answer any questions. In this case, a communicator
crackles and the PCs hear the following message:
“We’ve arrived at the ECA ops room and can’t find a
way to send a distress beacon, so we’ll have to think
again. Majken has convinced me we should take a look
at those caves we came for, by the dam, although it’s
risky with only the two of us. I’ll call in again in three
hours. Gorham out.” If the PCs ended the confron-
tation peacefully and convinced the Marauders they
are friendly, they will help the PCs and offer them this
information, as well as details of the Marauders’ rea-
sons for opposing the Perfected.
RAS HID RAVIND RA
Single-minded, determined and stoic, Ravindra has
been a loyal follower of J.V. Gorham since the late
days of her grandfather. He has seen much death and
heartbreak and is determined to see the end of the
Perfected and the Children of the Two Divines. Despite
his injuries from the crash, he will not surrender and
any attempt to convince him to, has a −2 modification.
STRENGTH 3, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 5
HEALTH: 3
SKILLS: Observation 1, Comtech 2, Medical Aid 2,
Manipulation 1, Ranged Combat 2
TALENT: Field Surgeon
GEAR: Biohazard suit (Armor Rating 1, Air Supply 2),
Weyland ES-4 Semi-Automatic Electrostatic Pistol,
E-7 Shockgun with KIP rounds, Electroshock
grenades, medkit
GORHAM’S MARAUDERS MEDIC
25 4
NOTE: Ravindra is suffering from critical injury #41 to
both his legs and cannot move.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
MARTINA WILLAMAR
Headstrong, athletic, and tough, Willamar is a
notorious security officer in the Marauders’ circles
known for her take-no-prisoners approach to her
enemies. She grew up with the young J.V. Gorham and
is intensely loyal to her. She intends to fight to the
death—any attempt to convince her to surrender has a
−2 modification.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 5, WITS 3, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Stamina 1, Observation 1,
Medical Aid 1, Command 2, Mobility 2, Ranged
Combat 3
TALENT: Past the Limit
GEAR: Biohazard suit (Armor Rating 1, Air Supply 2),
GORHAM’S MARAUDERS SECURITY
Weyland ES-4 Semi-Automatic Electrostatic Pistol,
E-7 Shockgun with KIP rounds, incinerator unit (2
reloads), Electroshock grenades
DIJANA KLAASS EN
Reasonable, fair-minded, and conscientious, Klaassen
is an engineering genius. She hates conflict but
realizes the Perfected are an existential threat,
although she believes that the devotees of the
Children of the Two Divines must have been brain-
washed and are victims too—they deserve a chance to
be saved. She will fight to defend herself if she has to,
but always prefers peaceful resolutions.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 4, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 4
SKILLS: Heavy Machinery 3, Stamina 1,
Observation 2, Comtech 1, Piloting 1, Ranged
Combat 1
TALENT: Spaceship Mechanic
GEAR: Biohazard suit (Armor
Rating 1, Air Supply 2), E-7 Shockgun with KIP
rounds, Electroshock grenades, DV-303 bolt gun,
cutting torch (Power Supply 2)
GORHAM’S MARAUDERS ENGINEER
NOTE: Klaassen is suffering from critical injury #33
broken ribs.
255G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE WHISPERING GALLERY
The bulbous head of the Engineer ship has been
designed to channel and amplify sound. It’s
not only hard to place the location of any given
noise—it might be hundreds of meters away, but
you’d swear it was whispering in your ear, or
something close echoes as if it were far off—the
structure is also designed to amplify it. A scream,
a gunshot or explosion immediately fills the
ship’s empty spaces with booming noise that
builds on itself before seeping away. Everyone
aboard the vessel who hears this for the first time
gains +1 STRESS LEVEL and must make a STAMINA
roll or spend a Round holding their ears against
the onslaught.
THE GUARDIAN
This ship, an elegantly elongated horseshoe with
a giant bulbous head to one side, measures 1,000
meters from top to tip, the head itself nearly 400
meters across and 600 meters long. It crashed on
this planet millennia ago and the world has grown
over and around it. A small part of one side of the
head is all that remains visible, now a part of the
mountains. The interior has been molded by time and
the pressure of mountains growing around—its layout
bears little similarity to any other Guardian ship that
may still exist in the universe. The vessel will never fly
again, but power still hums. The inside is bathed in an
eerie blue glow—just bright enough to see, not bright
enough to dispel the shadows.
The interior of the vessel is cool, with breathable
air, and protects against the planetary radiation. The
walls and floors look almost carved in a dull obsidian
that swallows the light and prevents any comms in or
out. In places, it seems the structure has been twisted
by some irresistible force. Sounds echo upon them-
selves, a noise in one part of the ship is channeled
and heard in another, hundreds of meters away. Just
stepping aboard this vessel for the first time is so
awe-inspiring that all PCs gain +1 STRESS LEVEL .
E N T R A N C E S : Oval openings in the side of the ship
can be reached by climbing up sloped gravel-strewn
ground. The incline is too steep for a vehicle, and
climbing in is not straight-forward. A successful
MOBILITY roll is required to avoid sliding back down
with a rush of stones.
C AV E R N O U S C H A M B E R S : Enormous, misshapen,
and twisted, with deep shadows. From the twisted
portico entrance the PCs can see the chamber opens
into a huge nave, with ribbed surfaces covered in
undisturbed dust and debris. A distant drip of water
can be heard.
In one of these chambers, the PCs come across
scuffed footprints in the dust. If they follow the trail,
they reach a darkened corner to find a survivor. He
seems almost normal, although his arms are a bit
25 6
misshapen—he is a Stage II Mutated Abomination
(page 123). He begs for forgiveness and for mercy
(without saying what for), and to be killed. He will
become distraught and attack them within five
Rounds if the PCs don’t do something to prevent it.
H E A D S : These chambers are filled with a forest of
tall Engineer head statues, with less than five meters
between each. There are hundreds, so many in fact
that it’s ridiculously easy to get lost amongst them,
especially given the echoes that make following the
sound of someone’s voice almost impossible. Each PC
must make an OBSERVATION test with a −3 modifica-
tion or they will get lost amongst them. Any PC who
gets lost must make a Panic Roll.
N AV I G AT I O N O R R E R Y : A huge chamber with a
raised dais in the middle and an unoccupied Engineer
navigator’s chair. Nothing responds to the PCs’ touch.
An intense blue glow can be seen coming from the
adjoining Power chamber.
P O W E R : Dominating this space, set into the floor
like an electric wound, is a five-meter-wide gash glow-
ing an intense electric blue, spitting sparks into the
ozone-filled air. Almost too bright to look at directly,
the gash has dozens of smaller offshoots branching
in every direction. Any item that uses power is fully
recharged just by being brought within SHORT range
of the gash—the PCs will notice the items getting hot.
A COMTECH roll will identify these as power conduits
feeding the entire structure but saturated with power
and highly unstable. If a point of power from a Power
Supply, or a weapon or tool, is discharged into the
gash the whole network shivers and sparks fly—the
PCs can see how close to catastrophically overloading
the system is. If a grenade or explosive charge is
detonated on it or it is overloaded by connecting a
power generator to it with a HEAVY MACHINERY roll,
a feedback loop is created that will cause the whole
ship to self-destruct in one Turn (see the sidebar The
End of the Ancient Mariner).1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TH E G UA RDIA N
S H R I N E : A Xeno­morph sculpture
high on the wall looks so lifelike
that the PCs need an OBSERVATION
roll to realize it’s a statue, with a
failed roll adding +1 STRESS LEVEL.
Around the sculpture the wall is
covered in Engineer glyphs—the
sixth campaign clue (page 162).
The glyphs can be recorded and
deciphered with an OBSERVATION
roll with a −1 modification, oth-
erwise DA/UT/UR on the UNCSS
Solovetsky Island can decode
it. This chamber was also the
campsite for the 30 survivors that
made it here when the radiation
came. It’s been abandoned for
months, with scattered cartons,
sleeping rolls, boxes, and bags. If
the PCs search the remains, they
will find the journal of a survivor
called Pablo Bengochaea, and can
read his last entry (see the sidebar
Pablo’s Last Words).
THE
SPINE
BLOCKED
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBERS
ENTRANCE
SLEEP
CHAMBER
NAVIGATION
ORRERY
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBERS
HEADS
ENTRANCE
HEADS
SHRINE
PULPIT
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBERS
AMPULE
CHAMBER
ENTRANCE
CAVERNOUS
CHAMBERS
AMBULATORY
POWER
P U L P I T : A raised platform that
looks like the pulpit of a cathedral.
There is space to stand at the top
and hand-shaped indentations on
the plinth. These allowed the Engi-
neers to sing their songs through-
out the vessel. If a PC places their
hands there, they feel a tingle, and
the next sound that the PC makes
is turned into an echoing song that
flows around the ship time and
again, getting louder with every
pass (for up to five Rounds). If you
wish, this may trigger the event
The Abomination Horde.
A M P U L E C H A M B E R : The stone
hatchway is ajar and inside are
hundreds of empty ampules, but
no black goo—all the 26 Draconis
strain that was here has already
been absorbed into the Abomina-
tions aboard the ship.
100 METERS
257G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE CHALKED GLYPHS
These glyphs, chalked on the floor by the Per-
fected, are the third campaign clue, and are also
found in the Engineer city on KOI-1966.03 (see the
expedition Leave All Else To The Gods). Finding
S L E E P C H A M B E R : Filled with five rows of low
Engineer cryosleep cubicles, a total of 250. All are
open except for one, which contains the skeletal
remains of a millennia-dead Engineer. If the PCs open
it—with a COMTECH or HEAVY MACHINERY roll—a
gush of rancid air will assault them, and the body will
disintegrate.
At the far end of the chamber two open cubicles
are each occupied by a slumbering Fulfremmen
(page 126), blanketed by the fleshy tendrils of a
Proto-Hive Node. With a successful OBSERVATION roll
the PCs will notice that the Node’s tendrils are trying
to penetrate the ship’s structure, but cannot. On the
floor by the cubicles are what appear to be Engineer
hieroglyphs marked out in chalk. These are not the
same as those on the Guardian ship but are from the
ruined Engineer city on KOI-1966.03. See the sidebar
The Chalked Glyphs.
The Fulfremmen will awaken and calmly approach
the PCs, initially curious. See the sidebar The
Fulfremmen.
The PCs immediately sense a feeling of welcome,
images of togetherness filling their heads, and an
intangible call of “join us.” All PCs must make a test
against their EMPATHY (attribute only). If this is failed,
they are entranced, and cannot act until they succeed
at a subsequent test (made once per Round) or suffer
damage. The Fulfremmen will reach out to touch
those entranced, exposing them to the Perfected’s
THE FULFREMMEN
Tall, lithe, and majestic, the two Perfected approach
with grace and elegance. Their black eyes scan
the scene, heads tilting this way and that. Their sil-
very-gray skin shines in the blue glow. One of them,
with a crimson marking—a birthmark or blemish
sketching a “V” shape on its cheek—peers at you
intently. The other—similar in every respect except
the golden mottling of the skin of its neck and shoul-
ders—reaches out a hand. You feel something, an itch
in your head, in your mind. Then you see it—a gro-
tesque image of twisted figures writhing in an ecstatic
orgy of pain and joy. You feel the pull, the invitation,
to be one with the hive, to be one with perfection.
25 8
them scrawled here by the Perfected should allow
the PCs to connect the Lychgate with the Per-
fected and start their suspicion that the Perfected
may want to use it to travel to the Middle Heavens.
infection—treat this as a disease with Virulence 6. If
the Sickness Roll fails, the victim becomes a Stage I
Humanoid Abomination (page 123).
Once one or more PCs succeed at their EMPATHY
test, and resist the Fulfremmen’s telepathy, the Ful-
fremmen become resentful and bitter. The PCs now
sense a feeling of anger, images of violent retribution
filling their heads. The Perfected will attack. If Nessa
Majken is here she will be deliriously happy and offer
the Fulfremmen the data pad with the navigation data.
Gorham will fight to the death to stop this happening.
A M B U L AT O R Y : This 800-meter cylindrical passage
is 50 meters wide, its ribs and structures forming a
rough spiral that coils the entire length—an awesome
spectacle.
T H E S P I N E : A massive obsidian door stands ajar
between the Spine and the Ambulatory. Behind the
door, a multitude of narrow passages disappear in
all directions. Any PC venturing here must make an
OBSERVATION roll to find the way back, but for every
failed roll the next test is at a cumulative −1 modifica-
tion. Using a Pups device gives a +1 modification to
the OBSERVATION roll. If the PCs OBSERVATION dice
pool is reduced to zero dice, they are hopelessly lost
and will eventually die unless rescued from outside.
Two Stage III Revenant Abominations (page 123)
are within these tunnels and will surprise the PCs.
PABLO’S LAST WORDS
The journal charts the events that led to the destruc-
tion of Pelican Colony—the increased solar activity,
the flares and radiation bursts, the panic among the
people, and Bengochaea’s escape from his job at
the dam into the Skritio Caves. The last entry reads:
“About 30 of us have made it into the caves and went
deeper than we ever did before. Shit, this place is
freaky and gives us all the creeps, but at least we’re
safe here for now. I got through to the refuge at the
Godafoss falls, it seems only a couple of hundred
made it in there, but at least they are safe for now
too. I can only hope lots got off planet before the
last rad storm hit us.”1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
THE END OF THE ANCIENT MARINER
Once the power conduits in the Guardian ship’s
fiber of the ship can no longer resist and suddenly
Power chamber have been destroyed or over-
implodes. The bulbous head, the Skritio Cave,
loaded the destruction of the ancient vessel is
crumples inwards, annihilating itself as the moun-
inevitable.
tains above come crashing down. The effect ripples
As relentless energy surges through its nervous
along the horseshoe spires and the ground begins
system, the Guardian ship starts to shudder. This
to give way in stages. The dam collapses, releasing
earthquake is felt all across Hoppipolla Lake, as
the water to flood down and into the city, destroy-
the ship beneath the ground builds to its own
ing all as it sweeps past, before the lake itself
destruction. Saturated by titanic forces, the very
disappears into the wrecked and ruined landscape.
N ESSA MAJ KEN
Confused, bitter and resentful, Majken has been a
Marauder for many years. However, she has decided
fighting against the Perfected is fruitless. She learned
much from devotee prisoners, and knows they seek
navigation data. This trip—with the help of her
sabotage and a downloaded copy of the Spirit of
Trafalgar’s nav data—was the perfect opportunity.
She needs to get to the Skritio Caves and give the
data to her new masters. The PCs can attempt an
opposed MANIPULATION test to see that she is hiding
something.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 3, WITS 5, EMPATHY 4
HEALTH: 6
SKILLS: Close Combat 2, Observation 2, Comtech 1,
Manipulation 3, Mobility 2, Ranged Combat 2
TALENT: Tough
GEAR: Biohazard suit (Armor Rating 1, Air Supply 2),
GORHAM’S MARAUDERS NAVIGATOR AND TRAITOR
Weyland ES-4 Semi-Automatic Electrostatic Pistol,
E-7 Shockgun with KIP rounds, incinerator unit (2
reloads), Electroshock grenades, data pad
EVENTS
C L E A N U P C R E W S : The automated system at
Pelican Colony swiftly spots anything that is out of
place and sends D6 automatons to clean it up. That
includes the PCs, their vehicles and Solovetsky Island
itself. One Turn after the PCs stop in any location,
they will see these robots approaching. They will
immediately proceed to disassemble, salvage and take
away anything they can. It will take them one Shift to
salvage and remove a vehicle like a Daihotai tractor.
For the SEV, they will salvage one point of hull or
armor per Shift, completely salvaging a Magellan-class
in three days.
259G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
R E S C U E T H E M A R A U D E R S : Whilst exploring
the city the PCs hear a shout for help and the toneless
voice of an automaton saying: “Please do not resist.”
The PCs see J.V. Gorham and Nessa Majken in the
grasp of two automatons. They have been captured
and are being returned to the Godafoss Caverns for
their own safety. When they see the PCs Gorham and
Majken fear they are devotees but will shout for help
as soon as they realize the PCs are not from the death
cult. If the PCs win Gorham’s trust she will suggest
they join forces, and Majken—the traitor—will be very
keen to have the PCs along if it further convinces
Gorham to explore the Skritio Caves.
F E A R T H E F I R E N A D O E S : A spark near the PCs
bursts into flame and, whipped up by the winds, imme-
diately swirls into a terrifying tornado of fire. It moves
at a rate of two zones per Round, in a random direction,
and burns everything it touches with an Intensity 12 fire.
Automated robots will appear within D6 Rounds to put
the fires out, but they will also be desperate to remove
the PCs from danger, by force if necessary.
B R I N G M E S U N S H I N E : The sun sends a Strong
radiation storm across KOI-947.01, causing 1 Rad per
Turn for characters in the open without protection.
The storm lasts 2D6 Turns. However, the storm is so
strong that even those protected by a ship, vehicle or
compression suit still suffer Weak radiation. The only
safe place is inside the Guardian ship. At your discre-
tion, to really turn up the heat, a storm could be so
strong that it brings Extreme radiation instead.
D I V I N E J OY : While on the Guardian ship Nessa
Majken cannot conceal her wonder and joy at the
majesty of the place. She is becoming increasingly
ecstatic that she has found the higher power she is
looking for. The PCs will notice this, but it’s up to them
if they think there may be a nefarious reason behind it.
T H E C H I L D R E N R E T U R N : At a point to best
heighten the tension, the Heliades-class ship that
Gorham had been chasing before the Spirit of Tra-
falgar crashed, reappears. Crewed by six devotees,
they will be searching for the survivors from the
crash and will detect the Solovetsky Island if the
ship is in the vicinity. They want to prevent the
survivors from escaping and capture the PCs’ ship
for themselves.
FINALE
T H E A B O M I N AT I O N H O R D E : After the
encounter with the Perfected, the PCs will have made
enough noise that the Abominations in the Spire have
awoken. The PCs suddenly hear echoing shrieks and
caterwauls from all over, no idea where they come
from—the Abominations are after them. This should
become a desperate chase to escape the Guardian,
not a stand-up fight. Have the PCs spot some Stage III
Revenants in the distance, and spring one on them as
a surprise. A Stage IV Beluga-Head and Stage V Sham-
bler block the corridor they have chosen to flee down.
Once outside, the PCs are safe from the Abominations,
as they are reluctant to brave the radiation.
T H E G U A R D I A N S H I P I S D E S T R OY E D : If the
Guardian ship is destroyed it implodes, bringing down
the mountainside and destroying the dam. Anyone (or
anything) on the plain by the dam and Hoppipolla lake
26 0
will have three Rounds to escape before being swept
away. If the UNCSS Solovetsky Island has landed here
a PILOT roll is needed to avoid the water, which does
three points of damage every Round the ship does not
escape. Those driving a vehicle must race away from
the water, making a PILOT roll each Round to keep
ahead—a failed roll and the vehicle is caught, and all
aboard take an eight Base Dice attack, Damage 1, for
each of the next three Rounds as they are swept up. If
they have swerved
the PILOT roll achieves three
into a safe spot, and the flood passes them by. Any
characters on foot will be swept away to their deaths.
If the PCs destroy the Guardian ship, by blowing up
or overloading the power conduits in the Power cham-
ber aboard the ship, the threat is destroyed, but if not,
the Perfected will eventually claim Pelican Colony for
themselves.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
EPILOGUE
There is little to recommend Pelican Colony for future
re-colonization, although some overzealous corporate
executive might sponsor a covert mission to acquire
any remains of the Engineer vessel. They may find
more than they bargained for, and return as an Abomi-
nation to the fleet. ■
METAPUZZLE CLUE #6—TRANSLATION OF THE ENGINEER HIEROGLYPH IN THE GUARDIAN SHIP
“WE MUST NOT MOURN THAT WHICH WE HAVE LOST—LOOK UPON OUR WORKS MY FRIEND AND REJOICE—”
“THE SOLACE OF OUR ACHIEVEMENT IS LOST UPON US—FOR WE HAVE CREATED IN SUCH ABUNDANCE—IN THE
IMAGE OF OURSELVES—IN THE IMAGE OF OUR ANGELS—IN THE QUEST FOR PERFECTION—BUT NOT FROM THESE
MULTITUDES DO WE FIND THE JOY OF THAT WHICH WE SEEK TO RE-CREATE—”
“THE PEDESTRIAN—THE DANCER—THE PERFECT—ALL OUR SCION AND YET ALL OUR ADVERSITY—REVELRY IN THE
WONDERS OF OUR TRIUMPH SHOULD OVERFLOW YOUR RELIQUARY—”
“BUT HOW CAN IT—FOR THE UNGRATEFUL CHILD TURNS ON US—FORCES US TO RELINQUISH THIS PLACE—AS THEY
HUNGER FOR THE PERFECT WORLD—TO RE-CRAFT ALL WORLDS AS PERFECT WORLDS—TO USE OUR LYCHGATE TO
SPREAD THEIR CONTAGION—”
“YET WHILE OUR PROGENY AND WE REVERE THIS ANGEL OF OUR EFFORTS—WE MUST BEAR THE REGRET OF OUR
UNGRATEFUL CHILD—AND BEAR THE BLAME FOR UNLEASHING IT—AND RETREAT INTO THE DARKNESS GLADLY—
FOR THE REAL DESTROYER OF OUR HEARTS REMAINS LOCKED IN THE LORE OF YESTERYEAR—”
7 .
I N T H E S H A D O W
O F P E R F E C T I O N
“The gem cannot be polished without
friction, nor man Perfected without trials.”
—CHINESE PROVERB
This is the finale of The Lost Worlds campaign. Having
learned what they think is the truth, the PCs must rush
to the Lychgate to prevent the Perfected from using it.
They will battle to its heart before they understand it is
all a ruse, that the Perfected’s real prize is the UNCSS
Ìyánlá and all it carries. Avoiding the Xeno­morphs that
now infest the Lychgate, the PCs must join the battle
for Ìyánlá, a battle complicated by the UPP’s treachery
and own attempt to take control of the Great Mother
Mission. How the PCs resolve this conflict is up to
them, but the fate of humanity is in their hands.
261G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
W H AT I S G O I N G O N ?
By now, the PCs will have learned what they think
is the truth—the Perfected are planning to use the
Engineer Lychgate, in orbit around the super gas giant
Ojo in the KOI-1938 system, to instantly travel the 100
light years between the Far Spinward Colonies and
the Middle Heavens. Their infection will spread, and
humanity will face its doom.
However, unknown to the PCs, the Perfected
cannot operate the Lychgate, and instead have made
another plan—to leak knowledge of the Lychgate to
the Great Mother Mission, knowing that in their ava-
rice, the humans won’t be able to resist seizing it for
themselves. In so doing, they will bring ships, perhaps
even the great colony ship UNCSS Ìyánlá, to within the
Perfected’s grasp. The Perfected will take these ships,
and in triumph journey to the Middle Heavens.
All they need to do is wait upon the Lychgate, with
their ships hiding in the near vicinity, holding their
fire until the right moment to spring the trap. Those
humans who venture on to the Engineer structure will
T H E T H R E E PA R T S
OF THE FINALE
PA R T I : The PCs arrive in the orbit of Ojo and find
the Lychgate. They should explore the Lychgate in
an attempt to prevent the Perfected from using it
as a portal, eventually confronting the Perfected
and Mother Ma’Kayla in the Lychgate’s Core. They
will learn the terrible truth behind the truth, that
this is all a honey pot, a trap to bring Ìyánlá within
the Perfected’s grasp, and that the battle for Ìyánlá
is about to begin.
PA R T I I : The PCs must escape the Lychgate and
the Xeno­morphs. They may be captured and read-
ied as hosts but will have the chance to escape.
PA R T I I I : The battle for Ìyánlá. Multiple factions
are trying to gain control of the ship and its vast
resources—the UPP have decided to take control,
the Perfected and the Children of the Two Divines
are trying to seize it, and the rest of the Mission’s
crew are trying to resist both of them. It’s up to the
PCs which, if any, of these factions they want to
support or oppose, and they should return to the
vessel to see out the fight, one way or another.
26 2
serve a useful function nonetheless, as the Lychgate
itself now has another purpose—the Perfected have
established four hives of XX121 Xeno­morphs aboard,
each with a growing Queen vying for the favor of the
one to rule them all, the Empress.
Gaius aboard the Ìyánlá is made aware of the Lych-
gate, either by the PCs contacting him and briefing him
themselves, or the Solovetsky Island’s DA/UT/UR com-
puter will have sent the information to him via Ìyánlá’s
MU/TH/UR. The fleet sets sail for the KOI-1938 system.
As the Ìyánlá drops from FTL and heads for the
orbit of Ojo, the UPP launches its coup to take control
of the Great Mother Mission. They resuscitate their
covert soldiers from hypersleep and ready themselves
to take over. But not all the UPP are focused on this
treachery. Unknown to the PCs, a UPP Cosmos Explo-
ration Corps scout ship under Lt Col Sensakovic has
already arrived at the Lychgate—she knows the threat
the Perfected represent and is already aboard the
Lychgate with the same mission as the PCs.
WHAT’S THE STORY, MOTHER?
You set sail for the KOI-1938 system in search of the
Lychgate, with the Ìyánlá and the fleet just hours
behind you in support. You find the gas giant, Ojo, a
planet that makes Jupiter look like a pebble in com-
parison. And there before you, orbiting this wonder of
nature, lies another wonder—the Lychgate.
You had thought Ìyánlá was impressive, but this
structure is truly awe-inspiring. Not quite circular, kilo-
meters across, with an immense outer ring connected
to a central hub by 16 spiraling booms, interlaced with
smaller girders that twist and writhe between the
spokes. The outer ring has four great transepts, huge
hangers hundreds of meters across and open to space,
easily big enough to swallow your ship and still have
space for more. The central hub, a massive flattened
sphere seemingly fashioned by the hands of the gods
themselves, is itself over one thousand meters across
and three hundred meters thick.
Your ship sensors show faint traces of power
running throughout the majestic structure. Spikes
of intensity and temperature increase as you scan
towards the central core, the beating heart of the gate.
The thermal signature blooms mightily at the very
center of the leviathan construction.
The Lychgate spins in breathtakingly elegant laziness,
a timeless behemoth that neither fears nor remembers
the passing of the eons. It turns, bathed in the radiant
glow from the yellow super gas giant, and waits.1 0 .
KICKING OFF
THE ACTION
The action kicks off in space near the Lychgate.
The PCs can see two Heliades-class ships, the
Perfected with their devotee minions from the
Children of the Two Divines, maneuvering into
position, easing themselves into two of the four
Transepts, preparing to dock and board the Lych-
gate. They have an hour’s head start (10 Turns).
Piloting Solovetsky Island into a Transept and
parking it close to the Airlock Spheres requires a
PILOTING roll with a −1 modification. A failed roll
means they have scraped the ship or struggled
with the Lychgate’s rotation—they successfully
complete the maneuver, but the ship takes
D3 damage.
“If you don’t stop it there won’t be
a home to go back to. It’s carrying
death and heading for Earth.”
— D R E L I Z A B E T H S H AW
THE LYCHGATE’S
ENVIRONMENT
With the exception of the Outer Ring, which is open
to the vacuum of space, the Lychgate is pressur-
ized and has a breathable, if humid, atmosphere.
Residual power flows and creates a low blue glow
throughout, that seems to emanate from everywhere
but nowhere at the same time. The solid core is
intensely dense, and has an exotic gravitational
effect, while the entire structure is spinning on its
axis. This means that the gravity felt in the center,
on the surface of the core itself, is much stronger
than that felt at the outer surface. While the gravi-
tational effect is obviously gradual, in game terms
the Core is 1.5G, the Antechamber Tunnels are 1G,
the Booms and Ambulatories are 0.5G, and it’s zero
G in the Outer Ring. The PCs will suffer from gravity
dyspraxia (page 91) as they travel through the
different zones.
E X P E D I T I O N S
THE FINALE’S GUEST STARS
Many of the NPCs from the campaign may feature in
this expedition, assuming they survive to this point
in the story. You can incorporate them in the scenario
as you see fit—some are aboard the Lychgate, others
on the Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá,, and the rest can appear when you need
them to. The key ones are:
THE PERFECTED (PAGE 126): There are many Per-
fected in this expedition, but if any of the Perfected
from the expeditions Against a Sea Of Troubles and
Let Sleeping Gods Lie survive, they will be aboard
the Lychgate or leading the Perfected’s attack on
the Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
MOTHER MA’KAYLA (PAGE 144): She is with the
Perfected on board the Lychgate, and will confront
the PCs when they reach the Lychgate’s Core.
GENERAL NURLAN OZOLINSKI (PAGE 150): He is
leading the UPP’s attempts to take control of UNCSS
Ìyánlá. He is a reasonable man, and if the PCs can
Ìyánlá.
convince him of the threat posed by the Perfected
and their minions, he will order his troops to fight
them, instead of taking over the ship.
ALECTO THROOP (PAGE 170): She and her rescue
ships are not combat troops, but she wants to help in
the fight against the UPP takeover and the Perfected.
She will use her ships to transport the PCs, or to
rescue them from a tight spot, should they need it.
J.V. GORHAM (PAGE 145): The purpose of her life,
and that of her ancestors, has been to oppose the
Perfected. She and the Gorham’s Marauders may
arrive to join the final battle against the Perfected,
with four ships and 50 fighters.
WARLORD ZHĀNGJIÉ AND/OR BRIGADIER WŎ (PAGE
145 AND 223): While the Cooperative is a self-in-
terested society that thinks it can defend itself, the
PCs can try to persuade Zhāngjié and/or Wŏ that
helping against the Perfected is in their best inter-
ests. The Cooperative may arrive to help, with two
ships and 50 soldiers, but may turn traitor and side
with the UPP, depending on their relationship with
the PCs.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL VICTOR DRUBOV (PAGE 231):
If Drubov survived he and his men are recalled to
UNCSS Ìyánlá to support the UPP takeover. However,
depending on his relationship with the PCs he may
support them in their moment of need.
263G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
T H E LY C H G A T E
The Lychgate is unmistakably an enormous Engineer
relic, its seemingly symmetrical structure twisted with
bulges, curves and swirls that give its biomechanical
design an almost organic feel. Seeing it for the first
time brings +1 STRESS LEVEL.
THE OUTER RING
This entire ring is hollow and open to the vacuum of
space—a huge Engineer ship hangar bay. While the
height of this ring varies between 500 and 150 meters
it is uniformly 800 meters wide. The interior walls are
curved and shaped to allow Juggernauts and other
vessels of unknown design to dock, hugging them-
selves snugly into the shaped docking spaces made for
them. On the outer hull there are similar slots where
a Guardian ship could attach, although the Lychgate
hasn’t played host to an Engineer vessel in millennia.
T R A N S E P T S : Huge openings that allow ships to
maneuver into the interior of the Outer Ring. Two of
them house Perfected Heliades-class ships.
A I R L O C K S P H E R E S : Where each Ambulatory con-
nects with the Outer Ring there are six airlock spheres,
each 50 meters across and fashioned in organic shapes
and lines. Each airlock has a 10-meter circular open-
ing on one side, the entrance and exit aperture, that
allows access to the interior of the sphere, but cannot
be docked with—the PCs must spacewalk to gain
access to the airlock. Inside it’s full of outcrops and
girders—ribbed platforms to stand or hold on to. Once
someone enters the sphere, the ancient automated
mechanisms take over, swiveling the entire sphere 180
degrees. The aperture swings round and slowly reveals
the view on the other side. When the aperture turns
from the vacuum of the Outer Ring to the atmosphere
of the Ambulatory, the sphere is suddenly flooded by a
rush of air. When turning from atmosphere to vacuum,
the air in the sphere explosively decompresses—unless
the PCs have prepared for this (by taking hold of the
platforms or attaching a cable to secure themselves),
they must make a MOBILITY test or be whooshed into
the zero-G vacuum of the Outer Ring.
THE BOOM SPOKES
A M B U L AT O R I E S : Accessed from the Outer Ring
through the Airlock Spheres, the Ambulatories are
huge twisted, spiraling tunnels, 100 meters wide. The
spirals make multiple pathways that twist around
the edges, allowing the PCs to make their way down
the tunnel. At the base of the tunnel, the PCs see ten
hatches set in the floor, five meters wide and made of
the same organically shaped substance of the airlock
spheres. Several are open, either fully or just enough
for a human to squeeze through. The Ambulatory has
a cathedral-like feel—sounds echo, the air swirls with
dust, and the glowing blue haze makes light beams
dance in the shadows.
26 4
B O O M L AT T I C E S : What look like structural girders
from the outside, are actually two-meter-wide tunnels
that create a warren of paths between the Ambula-
tories. Each Ambulatory has dozens of openings to
these twisting, dark and cold pipes. A source of light
is needed to navigate them, and once inside, the PCs
need to make an OBSERVATION roll to avoid getting
lost within the maze. They can make this roll once per
Turn but gain +1 STRESS LEVEL on the first failed roll,
and must make a Panic Roll if they fail a second time.
They gain a +1 modification if they use a Pups to aid
them (page 93).1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TH E LYCH GATE
100×100 METERS
R
R
I
N
G
TRANSEPT
T
H
E
O
U
T
E
AIRLOCK
SPHERES
BOOM
LATTICES
ANTECHAMBER
TUNNELS
TRANSEPT
AMBULATORIES
CORE
AMBULATORIES
T
H
E
O
U
T
E
R
R
I
N
G
BOOM
LATTICES
TRANSEPT
TRANSEPT
BOOMS
TRANSEPT
BOOMS
ANTECHAMBER TUNNELS
AMBULATORY
CORE
AIRLOCK
SPHERES
AMBULATORY
TRANSEPT
AIRLOCK
SPHERES
SIDEVIEW
2 65G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE ANTECHAMBER TUNNELS
Entering this space from an Ambulatory the PCs see
a bewildering maze of multiple tunnels crisscrossing
each other, all heading down.
As the PCs negotiate these tunnels they will come
across a number of random chambers—rolled on the
adjacent table—before they eventually either reach
an iris-valve hatch in the floor that opens, leading to
the Lychgate Core (if they are heading downwards),
or the hatches to the Ambulatory (if they are trying
to leave):
D6CHAMBER TABLE
1A cryosleep room with D66 beds lined up vertically around the walls, all empty.
2A wide chamber with an obsidian plinth in the middle, watched over by four carved heads.
3If the PCs are exploring the Lychgate, this is an empty chamber. If they are fleeing the Xeno­morphs
after the confrontation at the Core, it is a Xeno­morph hive chamber with D6 Facehuggers, D6 Ovo-
morphs, and D6 hosts. If the PCs linger a Drone will appear, at your discretion.
4A room with small pools of crystal-clear water, and drapes hanging throughout. The PCs have to
push through them to progress.
5The centerpiece of the chamber is a three-meter-wide shaft, dripping water and full of dusty mist.
Roll D6. On 1–3, it’s on the ceiling and goes upwards, on 4–6, it’s on the floor and goes down.
6A shrine of some sort with images and glyphs lining the walls, but too eroded to make any sense of.
T H E LY C H G A T E C O R E
The core chamber is a 300-meter-wide sphere, with
dozens of iris-valve hatches scattered around the
ceiling. There are no obvious controls, but they
open when touched. In the center of the chamber
is the Core, a huge sphere that forms a surface, 100
meters below the ceiling and its hatches. The space
in between is crisscrossed by an intricate scaffold of
twisted girders, pipes and small platforms.
S C A F F O L D : Built for humanoids bigger than
humans, the scaffold forms a set of stairs and walk-
ways for the Engineers to reach the surface from the
hatches. For the PCs, it requires a MOBILITY roll to
clamber up or down. A failed roll means they slip and
crash into a nearby girder, taking one point of damage
(armor applies).
S U R FA C E A N D S U N K E N T R E N C H E S : Standing
on the surface of the Core, underneath the spider’s
web of scaffolding, under 1.5G of gravity, is an intensely
weird experience. Being only 200 meters across the
266
ground of the core appears to fall away from the PCs
on all sides. Gain +1 STRESS LEVEL. The surface is criss-
crossed by narrow trenches, all linked and converging
on a hexagonal cynosure, the center of the Lychgate.
C Y N O S U R E : Sunken into the surface, the Cynosure
is the Lychgate’s control center. A central chair, high-
backed and looming, and surrounded by musical con-
trols, sits between four space jockey platforms, each
facing the chair. The PCs will not be able to activate
any of the musical controls even if they sit in the chair.
But if one should climb into a space jockey seat, the
suit will automatically start to close over them. Unless
they immediately make a successful MOBILITY roll they
are trapped inside, the suit giving them Armor Rating
12. Roll a Stress Die at the start of every Round there-
the machine recognizes the occupant is
after—on
not an Engineer and re-opens the suit.
One Perfected, Mother Ma’Kayla and six devotees
are here, calmly waiting for the PCs. See the sidebar
The Fight for the Cynosure.1 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
TH E CYN OS U R E
2×2 METERS
N
E
K H
N C
U N
S RE
T
S
T UN
R
E KE
N N
C
H
STEPS
SPACE JOCKEY
PLATFORM
SPACE JOCKEY
PLATFORM
CONTROL
CHAIR
STEPS
SPACE JOCKEY
PLATFORM
N
E
K H
N C
U N
S RE
T
S
T UN
R
E KE
N N
C
H
SPACE JOCKEY
PLATFORM
STEPS
STEPS
267G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
THE FIGHT FOR THE CYNOSURE
When the PCs arrive at the Cynosure, they find a calm
scene: a Perfected (one they have already met, if they sur-
vived), Mother Ma’Kayla and six devotees are waiting for
them. They won’t start any hostilities, knowing full well
that the Xeno­morphs are gathering in the scaffold and
looking for hosts, but will defend themselves if attacked.
The PCs are swamped with telepathic images of
welcome, of a joyful reunion, of hope, shrouded within
a cloak of an iron willpower and utter ruthlessness.
Mother Ma’Kayla will then greet them in a non-aggres-
sive way, and say the following:
TShe openly admits she cannot make the machine
work but says “feel free to try it for yourselves.”
TShe will tell them that the Perfected have been here
for months, and have always known they couldn’t
operate it, “but making it work wasn’t the point—
bringing you and your ships here was…”
TShe will try to convince them to join the Perfected:
“Why bother fighting us, when you can join us and
reap the joys of perfection?”
TIf the PCs refuse her offer, she will seem genuinely
disappointed, but will shrug her shoulders: “It mat-
ters little, by now our people will be on their way to
capture your Ìyánlá and we will soon be on our way
to the Middle Heavens.”
During this scene—or as the fight unfolds, if the PCs
choose to attack—the Xeno­morphs’ presence in the
scaffolding becomes more obvious. The PCs can make
an opposed OBSERVATION roll to hear or spot move-
ment in the scaffold, before two Xeno­morphs sweep
down and take two of her devotees. Two Scouts and
two Drones now close in on the PCs, intent on captur-
ing them (use the Xeno­morph Capture Attacks below).
Draw initiative.
THE XENOMORPHS AND THE HIVES
The XX121 Xeno­morphs aboard the Lychgate behave a little differently from those in the core rulebook. Four hives
are being cultivated, under the overall control of an Empress, and there is competition between the hives. These
Xeno­morphs are in “capture mode” with the gathering of live hosts for the hives their primary instinct. This overrides
individual self-preservation, the scouts and drones are driven to capture hosts even if they are attacked themselves.
XENOMORPH CAPTURE ATTACKS
D6ATTACK
1HERDING: The Xeno­morph spreads its limbs, bares its teeth and shepherds the victim. The victim must win
an opposed MOBILITY roll against ten Base Dice or be forced to move wherever the Xeno­morph wants—near
a Facehugger, into the arms of another Drone or Scout, or somewhere else where capturing the PC is made
easier. Make an immediate Panic Roll.
2
NO ESCAPE: The Xeno­morph pauses and hisses at its victim, before scampering away to an adjacent zone. But
the Xeno­morph is only biding its time—when it acts on the next Round, it has been joined by another of the
same type, and they both attack the original target.
3
BRING THEM DOWN: The Xeno­morph sweeps with arms, legs and tail, lashing out to bring the victim to the
ground. It attacks with ten Base Dice against the target’s CLOSE COMBAT. If successful, the target is battered to
the ground, drops any handheld items, suffers one point of damage and must make an immediate Panic Roll.
4
FACE GRAB: The Xeno­morph grasps the victim’s face, an opposed grappling attack with eight Base Dice. If the
Xeno­morph succeeds, it does no damage, but the victim is grappled, blinded, and must make an immediate
Panic Roll. If the victim does not break the grapple, the Xeno­morph’s next attack is automatically #6.
5
CAPTURE FOR THE HIVE: The Xeno­morph attacks with its venom-spiked tail, with ten Base Dice, Damage 1.
If the attack causes any damage, the Xeno­morph pulls its punch so only one point of damage is inflicted,
and the paralyzing venom takes effect. The victim must make a STAMINA roll—the number of
rolled is the
number of Rounds they can stay up, then they fall unconscious for D6 Turns. The paralysis can be removed
with a shot of adrenaline (a MEDICAL AID roll with a medkit).
6
STUN THE HOST: The Xeno­morph attacks the victim with nine Base Dice, Damage 1, its inner jaw flashing out. But
it’s not trying to kill. If the attack does any damage, the victim is immediately Broken and knocked unconscious
by the blow. They do not suffer any critical effect even though they are Broken, but are unconscious for D6 Turns.
26 81 0 .
E X P E D I T I O N S
CAPTURED BY THE HIVE
As the confrontation at the Cynosure progresses, the
PCs may manage to escape from the Xeno­morphs and
rush to return to their ship, to protect Ìyánlá from the
Perfected’s trap. However, if they fail to escape the
Xeno­morphs, they may think they are doomed, but
they are not. See the adjacent sidebar Maybe It Was
Better Being Dead.
Roll on the chamber table (page 266) to see in
which type of room they awaken. But this chamber is
a Hive and they are stuck to the walls, hosts for Face-
huggers. There are five unopened Ovomorphs, many
opened ones, and dead Facehuggers lying all around.
The walls are adorned with people, some long dead,
some being facehugged, some just unconscious (D6
of each). This includes Lt Colonel Sensakovic and
two of her men similarly trapped. On the floor near
them are three AK-4047s and a bandolier with three
reloads.
The PCs awaken with Health equal to their maxi-
mum minus one point, all the Stress they had before
capture, but they have lost any items they were
carrying. Trying to break free of the bonds takes a
STAMINA roll with a −3 modification. One attempt can
be made each Round, but every attempt makes noise.
they disturb a Facehugger
Roll a Stress Die—on
looking for a host. If they make a lot of noise (using
the AK-4047, for example) a Drone will be alerted and
arrive in D6 Rounds.
LIEUTENANT CO LO N EL SO NIA S EN SAKOVIC
the UPP’s desire to ensure the Great Mother Mission
is a success for the people of the UPP but has misgiv-
ings about the military approach. She has seen the
Perfected firsthand and knows the threat they present.
She has come to stop the Perfected using the Lych-
gate to reach the Middle Heavens. If the PCs convince
her they have a common goal she is pragmatic enough
to join forces.
If the PCs save her and help her escape the Lych-
gate, she will be an ally in trying to convince General
Ozolinski to stop the coup and fight the Perfected,
although she knows she has been facehugged.
STRENGTH 4, AGILITY 5, WITS 3, EMPATHY 3
HEALTH: 6
SKILLS: Close Combat 3, Ranged Combat 2,
Stamina 1, Observation 2, Command 3, Mobility 2
TALENT: Tough, Banter
GEAR: UPP 6B90 Armor (Armor Rating 6), AK-4047,
MP-4043 Grach pistol, combat knife
UPP COSMOS EXPLORATION CORPS
Courageous, pragmatic, and reasonable, Sensakovic
commands one of the four UPP scout ships that
secretly came to the Far Spinward Colonies before
the Great Mother Mission. She is learning something
about the horrors in this sector of space. She supports
NOTE: Sensakovic’s Chestburster (page 305 of the
core rulebook) will erupt at a moment best suited to
raise the tension. However, if the PCs are especially
kind to her and win her trust, she will tell them she is
doomed. The PCs can then choose to help save her,
by getting her to Ìyánlá’s medical center.
269G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
MAYBE IT WAS BETTER BEING DEAD
Read the following to your players:
fast. Before you there are many, many eggs. Most are
open and empty. A lot of the spindly, long-legged
“Your last thought had been one of death, a blessed and
creatures lie dead, curled upon themselves. One lies on
painless release. Your life flashed before your eyes in
the floor immediately between all of you…”
that final moment. But now, you sluggishly come round,
and almost wish you hadn’t—your worst nightmare
It’s up to you to decide if any, none, or all the PCs
forms before you.
have been facehugged at this point, but this scene is
This chamber is a picture of hell. Gelatinous secre-
intended to get the players worried. If the PCs think
tions cover the walls, floor and ceiling, slime drips,
they are carrying a Chestburster, their only hope is the
steam rises, and you are hanging from the wall, stuck
medbay on the UNCSS Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá..
U N C S S Ì YÁ N L Á
Use the ship stats and the vessel layout diagram for
the UNCSS Ìyánlá (page 146) during the battle.
C O M M A N D M O D U L E : Houses the Bridge (which
includes control of Ìyánlá’s complement of nuclear
weapons), Communications Center and the UN Mis-
sion Administration offices.
T R A N S I T M O D U L E : The primary module for per-
sonnel access to and from Ìyánlá. It contains airlock
access from the SEV docking ring, hangar bays and
tactical operations centers, for coordinating off-ship
operations, and the security ops room, with armory.
This only contains some small arms weapons (pistols
and rifles) at your discretion.
C R YO S L E E P M O D U L E S A – D : Each module
contains 2,500 sleeping colonists.
E N G I N E E R I N G : Maintenance and control of ship
systems are managed from here (with the exception
of drive control) as well as bulk hangers for on and
off-loading cargo. UNCSS Ìyánlá’s security CCTV and
environment systems can be controlled from the Engi-
neering Control room at the aft of this module, includ-
ing atmosphere and power. This module also serves as
bulk storage for everything the mission needs, from
food and water, rescue supplies and spare parts, to
mining equipment, explosive charges, Powerloaders
and anything else an enterprising PC might think of
(at your discretion).
270
The PCs could influence the outcome of the battle
by occupying the Engineering Control room and
remotely tampering with Ìyánlá’s systems using COM-
TECH —see the sidebar Running Interference.
T H E T H R E E S P I N E S : Three structural corridors
that run the length of the ship, one central spine for
bulk equipment, and starboard and port spines for
crew. Each has a travelator both fore and aft direc-
tions, and safety bulkheads every 50 meters.
D R I V E M O D U L E : Everything needed to propel the
ship. The reactor complex is a suite of five rooms that
surround and support the ship’s reactors. Emergency
self-destruct controls are located here, but can only
be authorized by UNCSS Ìyánlá’s senior flight officer
and Governor Abantu.
Without their authorization codes the system can
be hacked, but it is hard, requiring a COMTECH roll
with a −3 modification, and a Turn of work, during
which tamper alarms will sound throughout the ship.
After that, the ship will self-destruct two Turns later.
The Drive Module also houses the compressed fuel
store. An explosive charge placed against a critical
spot (requiring a HEAVY MACHINERY roll to identify)
will breach the tanks and set off a chain reaction
that will cause a welter of explosions to destroy the
ship in 3D6 Rounds. The same effect can be gained
by piloting an SEV into the Drive Module at the right
place, requiring a HEAVY MACHINERY roll to locate the
weak spot in the module’s structure, and a PILOTING
roll to hit it.1 0 .
RUNNING INTERFERENCE
If the PCs occupy the Engineering Control room, they
can use the systems there to affect the Ìyánlá’s envi-
ronment. Using COMTECH , the PCs can access the CCTV
system to find friends and enemies aboard the ship, or
survey the situation in critical locations, such as the
bridge or drive rooms. They can track the movement of
enemy forces and feed information to friendly troops.
E X P E D I T I O N S
COMTECH will enable them to open and close bulkheads
and airlocks, depressurize areas, and hold the enemy to
ransom. The opportunities are only limited by the PCs’
imaginations, and your discretion. Once the PCs start
doing this, they are likely to draw unwanted attention
from their enemies, who will attack engineering to put
a stop to them.
EVENTS
S O U N D S I N T H E D A R K : While aboard the Lych-
gate the PCs hear hissing from the darkness, and a
bank of steamy fog rolls towards them from a nearby
tunnel. With a successful OBSERVATION roll, they can
hear what sounds like scraping footfalls from within
the mist—and gain +1 STRESS LEVEL —and their visi-
bility is immediately reduced to SHORT range for one
Turn. At your discretion the steam can hide a Facehug-
ger on the prowl (page 302 of the core rulebook).
T H E D E A D U P P : As the PCs explore the Lychgate,
they stumble across the dead body of a soldier in
UPP 6B90 armor, his chest such a mangled mess
it’s impossible to tell exactly what killed him. If the
PCs search the body they find a name tag, Sergeant
Maksim Yurelko, an MP-4043 pistol with 2 reloads, and
a combat knife. Sgt Yurelko was one of UPP Lt Colonel
Sensakovic’s missing soldiers.
S N A K E S K I N : As the PCs explore the Lychgate and
get closer to the Core they find sticky piles of what
look like sloughed-off snake skin. They vary in size, but
some are almost the size of a human. This may bring
+1 STRESS LEVEL to all seeing it, at your discretion.
T H E E N E M Y O F M Y E N E M Y : While exploring
the Lychgate, the PCs stumble across Lt Colonel Sen-
sakovic, one UPP soldier and her AA83 Davydovich
combat android (page 171). She has lost contact
with the rest of her team, although one has remained
on her scout ship docked in the Outer Ring. She is wary
but may divulge that she is there to stop the Lychgate
being used and can be persuaded to join forces.
O H N O YO U D O N ’ T : Once the PCs learn of the
Perfected’s plan and are attempting to flee the Lych-
gate, Xeno­morphs set off to recapture them. Two
Drones are scurrying along tunnels to get ahead. Enter
stealth mode. Feel free to adjust the number of Xeno­
morphs where that will help build the tension of the
chase, and to use the original Signature Attack tables
(page 309 of the core rulebook).
T H I S O N E I S M I N E : When a PC is about to be
killed or captured by a Xeno­morph, another Xeno­
morph attacks, but it doesn’t attack the PC. The two
beasts, from competing hives, square off against one
another in a display of intimidating ferocity intended
to make the weaker creature back down. The PC gains
+1 STRESS LEVEL , but it’s their chance to run like hell.
T H E C H I L D R E N F I N D YO U : While trying to
leave the Lychgate and escape being captured as
Xeno­morph hosts, the PCs run into a group of three
devotees who will block their escape. They will say the
PCs are honored to have been chosen by the Destroy-
ing Angels and shouldn’t insult them by resisting. They
will fight to restrain the PCs and return them to the
Xeno­morphs. At your discretion, a Xeno­morph may
appear, but take a devotee first!
27 1G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
I T ’ S W E I R D A N D P I S S E D O F F : While escaping from
the Lychgate the PCs take a turn and run into a big, hot
and humid chamber—definitely a hive. In the center is the
Empress Xeno­morph, blocking the PCs’ path. +1 STRESS
LEVEL and immediate Panic Rolls for all who see this. She
will make a PSYCHIC LOVE attack every Round against a
random PC (Empress Signature Attack #2, page 138), until
this fails, in which case she will MIND MELT (Attack #6) the
PC who resisted. Probably time for the PCs to run like hell
the other way.
THE BATTLE FOR ÌYÁNLÁ
The battle for Ìyánlá can play out in many
different ways, depending on the actions
of the PCs and what you feel builds the
greatest tension for this finale. Options
include:
TThe Perfected get the upper hand and
look like they will attain victory, and
possession of the Ìyánlá
Ìyánlá,, quickly. This
could be indicated by UPP forces falling
back from key positions, the destruction
of a friendly ship, or Governor Abantu
giving the order to abandon ship.
H AV O C A B O A R D Ì YÁ N L Á : Xeno­morph Drones have
been released on UNCSS Ìyánlá by the Perfected. The PCs
hear the effects of their violence over the radio and come
face to face with a Xeno­morph of your choice at a critical
moment in the action.
TThe UPP gets the upper hand, indicated
P R AY F O R T H E C AVA L R Y : If the battle for Ìyánlá
needs spicing up, or the PCs need some extra help, or they
have arranged for help, the cavalry finally arrives. It might
be Gorham’s Marauders, or the Cooperative, throwing their
troops into the fight, or UPP Colonels Drubov or Sensa-
kovic turn up at the right moment. Remember you have
these tools to help direct the battle into the most tense and
exciting finale you can.
by the destruction of a Perfected ship,
the capture of key locations such as the
Bridge or Drive Module, or Governor
Abantu orders the surrender to the UPP,
to save lives.
TThe battle is a close run thing, with no
one getting the upper hand as soldiers
fight, the ship gets increasingly dam-
aged, and people die.
THE FINALE
The epic finale of The Lost Worlds campaign plays
out on and around the home of the Great Mother
Mission itself, the UNCSS Ìyánlá. In space there will
be numerous small ships from Ìyánlá, including the
UNCSS Umsindisi and UNCSS Chimata-no-kami. There
are four Heliades-class vessels from the Children of
the Two Divines, docked or trying to dock with Ìyánlá,
boarding their attackers to take the ship.
C O M M S C H AT T E R : The radio waves are full of
comms chatter as a result of the fighting—the PCs
can learn what is happening by hacking into these
comms with a successful COMTECH roll from aboard
the Solovetsky Island, or a suitable console aboard the
Ìyánlá, or using a Seegson P-DAT (page 132 of the core
rulebook). You can add whatever information you feel
the PCs need to make this final battle as exciting as
possible.
T H R E E W O R L D E M P I R E : Colonel David Buston
and Lynna Young-Hee put aside their differences
272
and join the UNISC security forces fighting the UPP’s
attempted coup.
U N I T E D A M E R I C A S : Valentina Berezi and the UA
contingent aboard the Ìyánlá are glad the gloves are
off and it’s not the UA’s fault—they resist the UPP with
everything they have.
W E Y L A N D -Y U TA N I : Kamal Vartouhi, in best
Weyland-Yutani style, secretly negotiates with General
Ozolinski to make sure the company comes out of this
shit-show smelling of roses, however the battle turns
out. Gaius, however, remains neutral and keeps the
Great Mother Mission’s best interests at heart.
T H E O T H E R C O R P O R AT E I N T E R E S T S : Hyper-
dyne, Omni-Tech Resources and Kelland Mining realize
they are in over their heads and want nothing to do
with the fighting. They all work to swipe whatever
valuable discoveries are in the Ìyánlá’s science labs
and quarantine bays and get off the ship.1 0 .
DEFENDING THE ÌYÁNLÁ
The battle for the ship will play out in many locations.
The table below explains what the UPP forces, and the
Perfected and their devotees, are trying to achieve
at the point the PCs enter the action. You as GM will
need to decide, and narrate, the action in some areas
to further the excitement of this final confrontation.
This should be driven by the actions of the PCs and the
E X P E D I T I O N S
plans they come up with—throw extra challenges in
their way or remove a challenge that stands in the way
of a great idea. For example, if the PCs want to go to
the Reactor Room, they will have little chance against
all the enemy forces listed there, so narrate the battle
that sees the opposing forces destroy each other and
gives the PCs a fighting chance.
HOSTILE FORCES
LOCATIONUPPPERFECTED AND CHILDREN OF THE TWO DIVINES
BridgeTwo squads attacking ten loyal UNISC
PeacekeepersNot reached here yet, but they want to take
the Bridge as a priority
UN
AdministrationOccupied by one UPP squad, holding the
senior personnel prisoner, including Governor
Kholwa AbantuNo interest
Transit ModuleOne squad fighting the Perfected as they try
to boardThree Deacons, a Perfected and 15 devotees
trying to board from their ship docked on the
docking ring
Cryosleep
ModulesNo interest15 recently infected devotees (Stage I Patho-
gen Carriers) have been sent here to start the
process of infecting the sleeping colonists
The Three SpinesOne squad trying to control traffic along them,
with five captured UNISC Peacekeepers15 devotees trying to get past or take out the
soldiers one at a time
Drive Module and
Reactor ComplexOne squad has taken control of Ìyánlá’s Reac-
tor ComplexA Deacon, a Perfected and ten devotees have
boarded the Drive Module and are on their
way to attack
Fuel StoresWill secure this once the Reactor Room is
under controlNone
One squad consists of ten UPP Space Operating Force soldiers.
B AT T L E D A M A G E : To reflect the damage the ship
is taking from the battle, roll on the Minor Component
Damage table (page 198 of the core rulebook) once
per Turn after the battle starts. There should be three
rolls before the PCs even reach the ship. Narrate these
results into the ongoing story of the battle for the Ìyánlá.
D E S T R OY I N G T H E Ì YÁ N L Á : The PCs may
decide the only way to stop the Perfected winning is
to destroy the Ìyánlá. There are several ways they can
achieve this:
Set the self-destruct sequence using the controls
in the Drive Module. This takes one Turn and will
destroy the ship two Turns after that.
Set an explosive charge to destroy the compressed
fuel store in the Drive Module. This will destroy the
ship in 3D6 Rounds.
T
T
T Crash the Solovetsky Island into the Drive Module
which will destroy the ship in 3D6 Rounds.
T Crash the Solovetsky Island into any other ship’s
T
module which will cause the ship to break up in 3D6
Turns and be fully destroyed in 3D6 Shifts.
Take control of the Ìyánlá’s bridge and either det-
onate one of the ship’s store of nukes, or crash the
colony ship into the crushing depths of Ojo.
I C A N ’ T L E T YO U D O T H AT : Two Working Joe
androids (page 172) will see that the PCs are attempt-
ing to self-destruct the Ìyánlá or blow up the fuel tanks
or intend to crash the Solovetsky Island into the colony
ship. They approach saying: “This activity is highly
dangerous, for your own safety I cannot allow you to
continue,” and will use non-lethal force to restrain the
PCs and stop them completing their task. ■
273G A M E
M O T H E R
S E C T I O N
A F T E R M A T H
The aftermath depends on the outcome of the Battle
of the Ìyánlá.
The worst, for humanity’s sake, is the Perfected
win. They take their contagion on their captured ships
and head for the Middle Heavens. The survivors from
the Battle of the Ìyánlá have a choice. They can flee
into the Far Spinward Colonies with whatever strength
they can muster, and start life over, but with the Sword
of Damocles hanging over their head—waiting for the
day when the Perfected, or the Xeno­morphs, or the
Engineers return to wipe them out. Or they can race
home, to call upon the fighting forces of the 3WE, the
UPP and the USCMC to put aside their differences, to
stand and confront this threat, starting a new story—
a new campaign—as humanity fights back.
However, the Battle of the Ìyánlá may not be so cut
and dried—a victory for humanity but the dregs of the
Perfected remain. Ìyánlá is infected so severely by the
Perfected it cannot be recovered. The survivors rush
to evacuate all they can from the great ship, before
plunging it into the heart of a nearby sun and finding
somewhere to settle. The old and established colonies
would surely welcome them, or new colonies just
274
starting up that could use their skills. But the Per-
fected are still a threat, and there are many stories to
be told of hunting them down and incinerating every
last scrap of infection.
And the best—the Perfected are annihilated, their
ships destroyed and the Children of the Two Divines
dead or scattered. There are still worlds to scour clean
but without ships the ragged Perfected that remain
are impotent. The survivors can look to their future,
complete the survey of the Far Spinward Colonies, and
set up home, perhaps on a pristine world, untouched
by either human or Perfected hands, and start a whole
new story of exploration and colonization.
But the Lychgate still remains, enigmatic and with
its deadly cargo. Weyland-Yutani won’t be letting this
go, and neither will the other corporations wanting
their cut. The United Nations, under the authority of
Governor Abantu, places a quarantine around it, but
how secure can that be? But for now, as everyone
licks their wounds and collects their wits, it holds. And
the Empress and her children, with timeless patience,
grow into their new empire, and wait. ■